THE DELHI RENT CONTROL ACT, 1958
No. 59 of 1958
An Act to provide for the control of rents and evictions and of
rates of hotels and lodging houses, and for the lease of vacant
premises to Government, in certain areas in the Union territory of Delhi.
[31st December, 1958.]

BE it enacted by Parliament in the Ninth Year of the Republic of India as
follows : CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1. (1) This Act may be called the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958.
(2) It extends to the areas included within the limits of the New Delhi Short
Municipal Committee and . the Delhi Cantonment Board and to such urban title,
extent
areas within the limits of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi as are specified and cornin the First Schedule: mencement.

Provided that the Central Government may, by notification in the Official
Gazette, extend this Act or any provision thereof, to any other urban area included within the limits of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi or exclude
any area from the operation of this Act or any provision thereof.
(3) It shall come into force on such date' as the Central Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(a) "basic Tent", in relation to premises let out before the 2nd day Definiof June, 1944, means the basic rent of such premises as determined in ac- dons.
cordance with the provisions of the Second Schedule;
(b) "Controller" means a Controller appointed under sub-section (1) of
section 35 and includes an additional Controller appointed under sub-section
(2) of that section;
(c) "fair rate" means the fair rate fixed under section 31 and includes
the rate as revised under section 32;
(d) "hotel or lodging house" means a building or part of a building
where lodging with or without board or other services is provided for a
monetary consideration;
(e) "landlord" means a person who, for the time being is receiving, or
is entitled to receive, the rent of any premises, whether on his own account
or on account of or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, any other person or as
a trustee, guardian or receiver for any other person or who would so receive
the rent or be entitled to receive the rent, if the premises were let to a
tenant;
'9th February, 1959, vide Notification No. S. 0. 269, dated 31-1.1959. Gazette of India.

[ACT ;

(f) "lawful increase " means an increase in rent permitted under the
provisions of this Act;
(g) "manager of a hotel" includes any person in charge of the management
of the hotel;
(h) "owner of a lodging house" means a person who receives or is
entitled to receive whether on his own account or on behalf of himself and
others or as ani agent or a trustee for any other person, any monetary consideration from any person on account of board, lodging or other services
provided in the lodging house;

(i) "premises" means any building or part of a building which is, or is
intended to be, let separately for use as a residence or for commercial use
or for any other purpose, and includes(1) the garden, grounds and outhouses, if any, appertaining to such
building of part of the building;

(ii) any furniture supplied by the landlord for use in such building
or part of the building:
but does not include a room in a hotel or lodging house;
(j) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(k) "standard rent", in relation to any premises, means the standard rent
referred to in section 6 or where the standard rent has been increased under
section 7, such increased rent;
(k) "standard rent", in relation to any premises , means the standard rent
behalf the rent of any premises is or, but for a special contract, would be.
payable, and includes(i) a sub-tenant:
(ia) any person continuing in possession after the termination of his
tenancy; and
(iii) in the event of the death of the person continuing in possession
after the termination of his tenancy, subject to the order of succession
and conditions specified, respectively, in Explanation I and Explanation II to this clause, such of the aforesaid person's(a) spouse,
(b) son or daughter, or, where there are both son and daughter,
both of them,
(c) parents,

(d) daughter-in-law, being the widow of his pre-deceased son,
as had been ordinarily living in the premises with such person as a member or members of his family up to the date of his death, but does not
include,(A) any person against whom an order or decree for eviction has
been made, except where such decree or order for eviction is liable to
be re-opened under the proviso to section 3 of the Delhi Rent Control
(Amendment ) Act, 1976. 18 of 1976.
(B) any person to whom a licence, as defined by section 52 of the
Indian Easements Act, 1882. has been granted. 5 of 1882.
'Subs. by Act 18 of 1976, s. 2, for cl. (() (retrospectively).

or 1958]

Delhi Rent Control

3

Explanation 1.-The order of succession in the event of the death of the
person continuing in possession after the termination of his tenancy shall be
as follows;(a) firstly, his surviving spouse;
(b) secondly, his son or daughter, or both, if there is no surviving
spouse, or if the surviving spouse did not ordinarily live with the deceased
person as a member of his family up to the date of his death;
(e) thirdly, his parents, if there is no surviving spouse, son or
daughter of the deceased person, or if such surviving spouse, son or
daughter or any of them, did not ordinarily live in the premises as a
member of the family of the deceased person up to the date of his death;
and
(d) fourthly, his daughter-in-law, being the widow of his pre-deceased son , if there is no surviving spouse, son, daughter or parents of the
deceased person, or if such surviving spouse, son, daughter or parents,
or any of them, did not ordinarily live in the premises as a member of
the family of the deceased person up to the date of his death.
Explanation IL-If the person, who acquires, by succession, the right to
continue in possession after the, termination of the tenancy, was not financially
dependent on the deceased person on the date of his death, such successor
shall acquire such right for a limited period of one year; and, on the expiry of
that period, or on his death, whichever is earlier, the right of such successor
to continue in possession after the termination of the tenancy shall become
extinguished.
Explanation III.-For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared
that,(a) where, by reason of Explanation II,. the right of any successor
to continue in possession after the termination of the tenancy becomes
extinguished, such extinguishment shall not affect the right of any other
successor of the same category to continue in possession after the termination of the tenancy; but if there is no other successor of the same
category, the right to continue in possession after the termination of the
tenancy shall not, on such extinguishment, pass on to any other successor
specified in any lower category or categories, as the case may be;
I(b) the right of every successor, referred to in Explanation L to
continue in possession after the termination of the tenancy, shall be personal to him and shall not, on the death of such successor, devolve on
any of his heirs;]

(in) "urban area" has the same meaning as in the Delhi Municipal
Corporation Act, 1957.

66 of 1957.

3. Nothing in this Act shall apply- Act not
to apply
(a) to any premises belonging to the Government; or to certain
premises.

(b) to any tenancy or other like relationship created by a grant from the

Government in respect of the premises taken on lease, or requisitioned, by
the Government:
`[Provided that where any premises belonging to Government have been or are
lawfully let by any person by virtue of an agreement with the Government or
otherwise, then, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court
or other authority, the provisions of this Act shall apply to such tenancy.]
'Added by Act 4 of 1963. s. 2 (with retrospective effect).
2-27 M of LJ&CA184

4

Delhi Rent Control
CHAPTER II
PROVISIONS REGARDING RENT

Rent in
excess of
standard
rent not
recoverable.

4. (1) Except where rent is liable to periodical increase by virtue of an agreement entered into before the 1st day of January, 1939, no tenant shall, notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary, be liable to pay to his landlord for the
occupation of any premises any amount in excess of the standard rent of the
premises, unless such amount is a lawful increase of the standard rent in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), any agreement for the payment of rent in excess of the standard rent shall be construed as if it were an
agreement for the payment of the standard rent only.

Unlawful
charges
not to be
claimed or
received.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall claim or receive
any rent in excess of the standard rent, notwithstanding any agreement to the
contrary.
(2) No person shall, in consideration of the grant, renewal or continuance of
a tenancy or sub-tenancy of any premises,
(a) claim or receive the payment of any sum as premium or pugree or
claim or receive any consideration whatsoever, in cash or in kind, in addition
to the rent: or
(h) except with the previous permission of the Controller , claim or
receive the payment of any sum exceeding one month ' s rent of such premises
as rent in advance.
(3) It shall not be lawful for the tenant or any other person acting or purporting to act on behalf of the tenant or a sub-tenant to claim or receive any
payment in consideration of the relinquishment, transfer or assignment of his
tenancy or sub-tenancy, as the case may be, of any premises.
(4) Nothing in this section shall apply(a) to any payment made in pursuance of an agreement entered into
before the 1st day of January, 1939: or
(b) to any payment made under an agreement by any person to a landlord for the purpose of financing the construction of the whole or part of any
premises on the land belonging to, or taken on lease by, the landlord, if one
of the conditions of the agreement is that the landlord is to let to that person
the whole or part of the premises when completed for the use of that person
or any member of his family:
Provided that such payment does not exceed the amount of agreed rent
for a period of five years of the whole or part of the premises to be let to such
person.
Explanation.-For the purposes of clause (h) of this sub-section, a -member
of the family" of a person means, in the case of an undivided Hindu family, any
member of the family of that person and in the case of any other family, the
husband, wife, son, daughter, father, mother, brother, sister or any other relative
dependent on that person.

[a

59

OF 1958]

Delhi Rent Control
6. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), "standard rent", in relation Standard
rent.
to any premises means-

(A) in the case of residential premises(1) where such premises have been let out at any time before the
2nd day of June, 1944,
(a) if the basic rent of such premises per annum does not exceed six hundred ruppes, the basic rent; or
(b) if the basic rent of such premises per annum exceeds six
hundred rupees, the basic rent together with ten per cent. of such
basic rent;

(2) where such premises have been let out at any time on or after
the 2nd day of June, 1944,19 of 1947.
38 of 1952.

(a) in any case where the rent of such premises has been fixed
under the Delhi and Ajmer-Merwara Rent Control Act, 1947, or the
Delhi and Ajmer Rent Control Act, 1952,U) if such rent per annum does not exceed twelve hundred
rupees, the rent so fixed; or
(ii) if such rent per annum exceeds twelve hundred rupees,
the rent so fixed together with ten per cent. of such rent:
(h) in any other case, the rent calculated on the basis of seven
and one-half per cent. per annum of the aggregate amount of the
reasonable cost of construction and the market price of the land
comprised in the premises on the date of the commencement of
the construction:
Provided that where the rent so calculated exceeds twelve
hundred rupees per annum, this clause shall have effect as if for
the words "seven and one-half per cent.", the words "eight and one.
fourth per cent." had been substituted;
(B) in the case of premises other than residential premises(1) where the premises have been let out at any time before the 2nd
day of June, 1944, the basic rent of such premises together with ten per
cent . of such basic rent:
Provided that where the rent so calculated exceeds twelve hundred
rupees per annum , this clause shall have effect as if for the words - ten
per cent. ", the words "fifteen per cent." had been substituted;
(2) where the premises have been let out at any time on or after
the 2nd day of June, 1944,-

19 of 1947.
38 of 1952.

(a) in any case where the rent of such premises has been fixed
under the Delhi and Ajmer-Merwara Rent Control Act, 1947 or the
Delhi and Ajmer tent Control Act, 1952,(i) if such rent per annum does not exceed twelve hundred
rupees, the rent so fixed: or

(it) if such rent per annum exceeds twelve hundred rupees,
the rent so fixed together with fifteen per cent. of such rent;

5

6 Delhi Rent Control
(b) in any other case, the rent calculated on the basis of seven
and one-half per cent. per annum of the aggregate amount of the
reasonable cost of construction and the market price of the land
comprised in the premises on the date of the commencement of
the construction:
Provided that where the rent so calculated exceeds twelve
hundred rupees per annum, this clause shall have effect as if for
the words "seven and one - half per cent .", the words " eight and fiveeightth per cent." had been substituted.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),(a) in the case of any premises, whether residential or not, constructed
on or after the 2nd day of June, 1951, but before the 9th day of June, 1955,
the annual rent calculated with reference to the rent at which the premises
were let for the month of March, 1958, or if they were not so let, with reference
to the rent at which they were last let out, shall be deemed to be the standard
rent for a period of seven years from the date of the completion of the construction of such premises; and
(b) in the case of any premises, whether residential or not, constructed
on or after the 9th day of June, 1955, including premises constructed after
the commencement of this Act, the annual rent calculated with reference to
the rent agreed upon between the landlord and the tenant when such premises
were first let out shall be deemed to be the standard rent for a period of five
years from the date of such letting out.
(3) For the purposes of this section, residential premises include premises
let out for the purposes of a public hospital, an educational institution, a public
library, reading room or an orphanage.
Lawful
increase of
standard
rent in
certain
cases

and recovery of
other
charges.

7. (1) Where a landlord has at any time, before the commencement of this
Act with o without the approval of the tenant or after the commencement of this
Act with the written approval of the tenant or of the Controller, incurred expenditure for any improvement, addition or structural alteration in the premises, not
being expenditure on decoration or tenantable repairs necessary or usual for such
premises, and the cost of that improvement, addition or alteration has not been
taken into account in determining the rent of the premises, the landlord may
lawfully increase the standard rent per year by an amount not exceeding seven
and one-half per cent. Of such cost.
(2) Where a landlord pays in respect of the premises any charge for electricity
or water consumed in the premises or any other charge levied by a local authority
having jurisdiction in the area which is ordinarily payable by the tenant, he may
recover from the tenant the amount so paid by him; but the landlord shall not
recover from the tenant whether by means of an increase in rent or otherwise
the amount of any tax on building or land imposed in respect of the premises
occupied by the tenant:

Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall affect the liability of any tenant
under an agreement entered into before the 1st day of January, 1952, whether
express or implied, to, pay from time to time the amount of any such tax as
aforesaid.

59

OF 1958]

Delhi Rent Control

7

8. (I) Where a landlord wishes to increase the rent of any premises, he shall Notice of
give the tenant notice of his intention to make the increase and in so far as such of rent
increase is lawful under this Act, it shall be due and recoverable only in respect

of the period of the tenancy after the expiry of thirty'days from the date on which
the notice is given.

4 of 1882.

(2) Every notice under sub-section (1) shall be in writing signed by or on
behalf of the landlord and given in the manner provided in section 106 of the
Transfer of Property Act, 1882.

9. (1) The Controller shall, on an application made to him in this behalf, Controller
either by the landlord or by the tenant, in the prescribed manner, fix in respect to fix

of

any

premises-

standard

rent, e[c.

(1) the standard rent referred to in section 6; or
(ii) the increase, if any, referred to in section 7.
(2) In fixing the standard rent of any premises or the lawful increase thereof,
the Controller shall fix an amount which appears to him to be reasonable having
regard to the provisions of section 6 or section 7 and the circumstances of the case.

(3) In fixing the standard rent of any premises part of which has been lawfully sub-let, the Controller may also fix the standard rent of the part sub-let.
(4) Where for any reason it is not possible to determine the standard rent of
any premises on the principles set forth under section 6, the Controller may fix
earn rent as would be reasonable having regard to the situation, locality and condition of the premises and the amenities provided therein and where there are
similar or nearly similar premises in the locality, having regard also to the standard
rent payable in respect of such premises.

(5) The standard rent shall in all cases be fixed for a tenancy
months :

of twelve

Provided that where any premises are let or re-let for a period of less than
twelve months, the standard rent for such tenancy shall bear the same proportion
to the annual standard rent as the period of tenancy bears to twelve months.
(6) In fixing the standard rent of any premises under this section, the Controller shall fix the standard rent thereof in an unfurnished state and may also
determine an additional charge to be payable on account of any fittings or
furniture supplied by the landlord and it shall be lawful for the landlord to recover
such additional charge from the tenant.

(7) In fixing the standard rent of any premises under this section, the Controller shall specify a date from which the standard rent so fixed shall be deemed
to have effect:
Provided that in no case the date so specified shall be earlier than one year
prior to the date o the filing of the application for the fixation of the standard
rent.
10. If an application for fixing the standard rent for determining the lawful
increase of such rent is made under section 9, the Controller shall, as expeditiously xation
of
as possible, make an order specifying the amount of the rent or the lawful in- interim
crease to be paid by the tenant to the landlord pending final decision on the rent.
application and shall appoint the date from which the rent or lawful increase so
specified shall be deemed to have -

8
Limitation of
liability
of middlemen.

Limitation for
application for
fixation
of standard rent.

Delhi Rent Control
11. No collector of rent or middleman shall be liable to pay to his principal,
in respect of any premises, any sum by way of rental charges which exceeds the
amount which he is entitled under this Act to realise from the tenant or tenants
of the premises.

12. Any landlord or tenant may file an application to the Controller for
fixing the standard rent of the premises or for determining the lawful increase
of such rent,(a) in the case of any premises which were let, or in which the cause of
action for lawful increase of rent arose, before the commencement of this
Act, within two years from such commencement:

(b) in the case of any premises let after the commencement of this
Act,-(i) where the application is made by the landlord , within two years
from the date on which the premises were let to the tenant against whom
the application is made;
(ii) where the application is made by the tenant

, within two years
from the date on which the premises were let to that tenant; and

(c) in the case of any premises in which the cause of action for lawful
increase of rent arises after the commencement of this Act, within two years
from the date on which the cause of action arises :
Provided that the Controller may entertain the application after the expiry
of the said period of two years , if he is satisfied that the applicant was prevented
by sufficient cause from filing the application in time.
Refund
of rent,
premium,
etc., not
recoverable under
the Act.

13. Where any sum or other consideration has been paid , whether before
or .fter the commencement of this Act, by or on
behalf of a tenant to a landlord, in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the Delhi and
Ajmer Rent Control Act, 1952, the
Controller may, on an application made to 38 of 1952
him within a period of one year from the date of such payment , order the
landlord to refund such sum or the value of such consideration to the tenant or
-order adjustment of such sum or the value of such consideration against the rent
payable by the tenant.

CHAPTER III
CONTROL OF LVICTION OF TENANTS

Protection
of tenant
against
eviction.

14. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other
law or contract, no order or decree for the recovery of possession of any premises
shall be made by any court or Controller in favour of the landlord against a tenant:
Provided that the Controller may, on an application made to him in the
prescribed manner, make an order for the recovery of possession of the premises
on one or more of the following grounds only, namely:(a) that the tenant has neither paid nor tendered the whole of the
arrears of the rent legally recoverable from him within two months of the
date on which a notice of demand for the arrears of rent has been served

on him by the landlord in the manner provided in section 106 of the Transfer 4 of 1882.

of D.,...o.t

A,..

l oon.

Delhi Rent Control

of 19581

(b) that the tenant has, on or after the 9th day of June, 1952, sub-let.
assigned or otherwise parted with the possession of the whole or any part
of the premises without obtaining the consent in writing of the landlord;
(c) that the tenant has used the premises for a purpose other than that
for which they were let-

(i) if the premises have been let on or after the 9th day of June,
1952, without obtaining the consent in writing of the landlord; or
(it) if the premises have been let before the said date without obtaining his consent;
(d) that the premises were let for use as a residence and neither the
tenant nor any member of his family has been residing therein for a period
of six months immediately before the date of the filing of the application
for the recovery of possession thereof;
(e) that the premises let for residential purposes are required bona fide
by the landlord for occupation as a residence for himself or for any member
of his family dependent on him, if he is the owner thereof, or for any
person for whose benefit the premises are held and that the landlord or such
person has no other reasonably suitable residential accommodation.

Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, "premises let for residential purposes" include any premises which having been let for use as a
residence are, without the consent of the landlord, used incidentally for commercial or other purposes;
(f) that the premises have become unsafe or unfit for human habitation
and are required bona fide by the landlord for carrying out repairs which
cannot be carried out without the premises being vacated;
(g) that the premises are required bona fide by the landlord for the
purpose of building or re-building or making thereto any substantial additions or alterations and that such building or re-building or addition or alteration cannot be carried out without the premises being vacated;
(h) that the tenant has, whether before or after the commencement of
this Act, built, acquired vacant possession of, or been allotted, a residence:
(1) that the premises were let to the tenant for use as a residence by
reason of his being in the service or employment of the landlord, and that
the tenant has ceased, whether before or after the commencement of this Act,
to be in such service or employment;
(j) that the tenant has, whether before or after the commencement of
this Act, caused or permitted to be caused substantial demage to the premises:
(k) that the tenant has, notwithstanding previous notice, used or dealt
with the premises in a manner contrary to any condition imposed on the
landlord by the Government or the Delhi Development Authority or the
Municipal Corporation of Delhi while giving him a lease of the land on which
the premises are situate;

(I) that the landlord requires the premises in order to carry out any
building work at the instance of the Government or the Delhi Development
Authority or the Municipal Corporation of Delhi in pursuance of any improvement scheme or development scheme and that such building work cannot be carried out without the premises being vacated.

9

10

Delhi Rent Control
(2) No order for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be made
on the ground specified in clause (a) of the proviso to sub-section (1), if the tenant
makes payment or deposit as required by section 15:

Provided that no tenant shall be entitled to the benefit under this sub -section,
if having obtained such benefit once in respect of any premises, he again makes
a default in the payment of rent of those premises for three consecutive months.
(3) No order for the recovery of possession in any proceeding under subsection (1) shall be binding on any sub-tenant referred to in section 17 who has given
notice of his sub-tenancy to the landlord under the provisions of that section,
unless the sub-tenant is made a party to the proceeding and the order for eviction
is made binding on him.
(4) For the purposes of clause (h) of the proviso to sub-section (1), any
premises which have been let for being used for the purposes of business or
profession shall be deemed to have been sub-let by the tenant , if the Controller is
satisfied that the tenant without obtaining the consent in writing of the landlord
has, after the 16th day of August, 1958, allowed any person to occupy the whole
or any part of the premises ostensibly on the ground that such person is a partner
of the tenant in the business or profession but really for the purpose of sub-letting
such premises to that person.
(5) No application for the recovery of possession of any premises shall
lie under sub- section ( 1) on the ground specified in clause (c) of the proviso
thereto, unless the landlord has given to the tenant a notice in the prescribed
manner requiring him to stop the misuse of the premises and the tenant has
refused or failed to comply with such requirement within one month of the date
of service of the notice ; and no order for eviction against the tenant . shall be
made in such a case, unless the Controller is satisfied that the misuse of the
premises is of such a nature that it is a public nuisance or that it causes damage
to the premises or is otherwise detrimental to the interests of the landlord.

(6) Where a landlord has acquired any premises by transfer , no application
for the recovery of possession of such premises shall lie under sub-section (1)
on the ground specified in clause (e) of the proviso thereto, unless a period of
five years has elapsed from the date of the acquisition.
(7) Where an order for the recovery of possession of any premises is made
on the ground specified in clause ( e) of the proviso to sub-section (1), the landlord shall not be entitled to obtain possession thereof before the expiration of a
period of six months from the date of the order.
(8) No order for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be made
on the ground specified in clause (t) of the proviso to sub-section (1), the landthe Controller is satisfied that the proposed reconstruction will not radically alter
the purpose for which the premises were let or that such radical alteration is in
the public interest, and that the plans and estimates of such reconstruction have
been properly prepared and that necessary funds for the purpose are available
with the landlord.

(9) No order for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be made
on the ground specified in clause (i) of the proviso to sub - section (1), if the
Controller is of opinion that there is any bona fide dispute as to whether the
tenant has ceased to be in the service or employment of the landlord.

of 1958]

Delhi Rent Control
(10) No order for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be made
on the ground specified in clause (j) of the proviso to sub-section (1), if the tenant,
within such time as may be specified in this behalf by the Controller, carries
out repairs to the damage caused to the satisfaction of the Controller or pays to
the landlord such amount by way of compensation as the Controller may direct.
(11) No order for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be made
on the ground specified in clause (k) of the proviso to sub-section (1), if the tenant.
within such time as may be specified in this behalf by the Controller, complies
with the condition imposed on the landlord by any of the authorities referred to
in that clause or pays to that authority such amount by way of compensation as the
Controller may direct.
'[14A. (1) Where a landlord who, being a person in occupation of any resi- Right to
dential premises allotted to him by the Central Government or any local autho- immediate
rity is required, by, or in pursuance of, any general or special order made by pos,ession
cr cru e
that Government or authority, to vacate such residential accommodation, or in ro a acc crue
default, to incur certain obligations, on the ground that he owns. in the Union to certain
territory of Delhi, a residential accommodation either in his own name or in the persons.
name of his wife or dependent child, there shall accrue, on and from the date

of such order, to such landlord, notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in
this Act or in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract (whether express or implied), custom or usage to the contrary, a right to recover
immediately possession of any premises let out by him:
Provided that nothing in this section shall be construed as conferring a
right on a landlord owning, in the Union territory of Delhi, two or more dwelling houses, whether in his own name or in the name of his wife or dependent
child, to recover the possession of more than one dwelling house and it shall
be lawful for such landlord to indicate the dwelling house, possession of which
he intends to recover.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Act or in any
other law for the time being in force or in any contract, custom or usage to
the contrary, where the landlord exercises the right of recovery conferred on
him by sub-section (1), no compensation shall be payable by him to the tenant
or any person claiming through or under him and no claim for such compensation shall be entertained by any court, tribunal or other authority:

Provided that where the landlord had received,(a) any rent in advance from the tenant, he shall. within a period of
ninety days from the date of recovery. of possession of the premises by him,
refund to the tenant such amount as represents the rent payable for the
unexpired portion of the contract, agreement or lease:
(h) any other payment, he shall, within the period aforesaid, refund
to the tenant a sum which shall bear the same proportion to the total
amount so received, as the unexpired portion of the contract or agreement,
or lease bears to the total period of contract or agreement or lease:
Provided further that, if any default is made in making any refund as
aforesaid, the landlord shall be liable to pay simple interest at the rate of six
per cent. per annum on the amount which he has omitted or failed to refund.]
'Ins. by Act IS of 1976, s. 5 (w.e.f. 1-12-1975).
3-27 M of LJ&CA/84

11

Delhi Rent Control

12
When a
renant
can get
the benefit of
protection
against
eviction.

15. (1) In every proceeding for the recovery of possession of any premises
on the ground specified in clause (a) of the proviso to sqb-section (1) of section
14, the Controller shall, after giving the parties an opportunity of being heard,
make an order directing thetenant to pay to the landlord or deposit with the
Controller within one month of the date of the order, an amount calculated at
the rate of rent at which it was last paid for the period for which the arrears
of the rent were legally recoverable from the tenant including the period subsequent thereto up to the end of the month previous to that in which payment or
deposit is made and to continue to pay or deposit, month by month, by
fifteenth of each succeeding month, a sum equivalent to the rent at that rate.
(2) If, in any proceeding for the recovery of possession of any premises
on any ground other than that referred to in sub-section (1), the tenant contests
the claim for eviction, the landlord may, at any stage of the proceeding, make
an application to the Controller for an order on the tenant to pay to the landlord the amount of rent legally recoverable from the tenant and the Controller
may, after giving the parties an opportunity of being heard, make an order in
accordance with the provisions of the said sub-section.
(3) If, in any proceeding referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2),
there is any dispute as to the amount of rent payable by the tenant, the Controller shall, within fifteen days of the date of the first hearing of the proceeding, fix an interim rent in relation to the premises to be paid or deposited in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), as the case
may be, until the standard rent in relation thereto is fixed having regard to the
provisions of this Act, and the amount of arrears, if any, calculated on the basis
of the standard rent shall be paid or deposited by the tenant within one month
of the date on which the standard rent is fixed or such further time as the Controller may allow in this behalf.
(4) If, in any proceeding referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2),
there is any dispute as to the person or persons to whom the rent is payable,
the Controller may direct the tenant to deposit with the Controller the amount
as
r sub-section (3), raw
payable by him under sub-section (1) or sub-section
entitled
shall
o
the case may be, and in such a case, no
person
to withd
the amount in deposit until the Controller decides the dispute and makes an
order for payment of the same.
(5) If the Controller is satisfied that any dispute referred to in sub-section
(4) has been raised by a tenant for reasons which are false or frivolous, the
Controller may order the defence against eviction to be struck out and proceed
with the hearing of the application. (6) If a tenant makes payment or deposit as required by sub-section (1)
or sub-section (3), no order shall be made for the recovery of possession on
the ground of default in the payment of rent by the tenant, but the Controller
may allow such costs as he may deem fit to the landlord.
(7) If a tenant fails to make payment or deposit as required by this section, the Controller may order the defence against eviction to be struck out
and proceed with the hearing of the application.

Resirtctions of
sub-letting.

16. (1) Where at any time before the 9th day of June, 1952, a tenant has
sub-let the whole or any part of the premises and the sub-tenant is, at the
commencement of this Act, in occupation of such premises, then, notwithstanding that the consent of the landlord was not obtained for such sub-letting,
flip nr-miles shall be deemed to have been lawfully sub-let.

T 59 1 or 1958]

Delhi Rent Control

13

(2) No premises which have been sub-let either in whole or in part on
or after the 9th day of June, 1952, without obtaining the consent in writing of
the landlord, shall be deemed to have been lawfully sub-let.

(3) After the commencement of this Act. no tenant shall, without the previous consent in writing of the landlord,
(a) sub-let the whole or any part of the premises held by him as a
tenant; or
(h) transfer or assign his rights in the tenancy or in any part thereof
(4) No landlord shall claim or receive the payment of any sum as premium or pugree or claim or receive any consideration whatsoever in cash or in
kind for giving his consent to the sub-letting of the whole or any part of the
premises held by the tenant.
17. (1) Where, after the commencement of this Act, any
premises are sublet either in whole or in part by the tenant with the previous consent in writing oocreaof the landlord, the tenant or the sub - tenant to whom the premises are sub-let tern
t on and
may, in the prescribed manner, give notice to the landlord of the creation of ti
the sub - tenancy within one month of the date of such sub -

of

letting and notify thesub-

termination of such sub - tenancy within one month of such termination. errancy.
(2) Where, before the commencement of this Act, any premises have been
lawfully sub-let either in whole or in part by the tenant, the tenant or the subtenant to whom the premises have been sub-let may, in the prescribed manner,
give notice to the landlord of the creation of the sub-tenancy within six months
of the commencement of this Act, and notify the termination of such sub-tenancy
within one month of such termination.
(3) Where in any case mentioned in sub-section (2), the landlord contests
that the premises were not lawfully sub-let, and an application is made to the
Controller in this behalf, either by the landlord or by the sub-tenant, within
two months of the date of the receipt of the notice of sub-letting by the' landlord or the issue of the notice by the tenant or the sub-tenant, as the case may
be. the Controller shall decide the dipute:
18. (1) Where an order for eviction in respect of any premises is made Subunder section 14 against a tenant but not against a sub-tenant referred to in tenant
section 17 and a notice of the sub-tenancy has been given to the landlord, theiee be
n
ant
sub-tenant shall, with effect from the date of the order, be deemed to become in Gera tenant holding directly under the landlord in respect of the premises in his tarn cases,
occupation on the same terms and conditions on which the tenant would have

held from the landlord, if the tenancy had continued.
(2) Where, before the commencement of this Act, the interest of a tenant
in respect of any premises has been determined without determining the interest
of any sub-tenant to whom the premises either in whole or in part had been
lawfully sub-let, . the sub-tenant shall, with effect from the date of the commencement of this Act, be deemed to have become a tenant holding directly
under the landlord on the same terms and conditions on which the tenant would
have held from the landlord, if the tenancy had continued.

14
Recovery
of possession for
occupation and
reentry.,

Delhi Rent Control
19. (1) Where a landlord recovers possession of any premises from the
tenant in pursuance of an order made under clause (e) of the proviso to subsection (1) of section 14, the landlord shall not, except with the permission of
the Controller obtained in the prescribed manner, re-let the whole or any part of
the premises within three years from the date of obtaining such possession, and
in granting such permission the Controller may direct the landlord to put such
evicted tenant in possession of the premises.

(2) Where a landlord recovers possession of any premises as aforesaid and
the premises are not occupied by the landlord or by the person for whose benefit
the premises are held, within two months of obtaining such possession, or the
premises having been so occupied are, at any time within three years from the
date of obtaining possession, re-let to any person other than the evicted tenant
without obtaining the permission of the Controller under sub-section (1) or the
possession of such premises is t ansferred to another person for reasons which
do not appear to the! Controller to be bona fide, the Controller may, on an application made to him in this behalf by such evicted tenant within such time as
may be prescribed, direct the landlord to put the tenant in possession of the
premises or to pay him such compensation' as the Controller thinks fit.

Recovery
of possession for
repairs
and rebuilding
and reentry.

20. (i) In making any order on the grounds specified in clause (fl or clause
ig) of the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 14, the Controller shall ascertain
from the tenant whether he elects to be placed in occupation of the premises or
part thereof from which he is to be evicted and if the tenant so elects, shall
record the fact of the election in the order and specify therein the date on or
before which he shall deliver possession so as to enable the landlord to commence the work of repairs or building or re-building, as the case may be.

(2) if the tenant delivers possession on or before the date specified in the
order, the landlord shall. on the completion of the work of repairs or building or
re-building , place the tenant in occupation of the premises or part thereof.

(3) If, after the tenant has delivered possession on or before the date specified in the order , the landlord fails to commence the work of repairs or building or re -building within one month of the specified date or fails to complete the
work in a reasonable time or having completed the work , fails to place the tenant
in occupation of the premises in accordance with sub-section (2), the Controller
may, on an application made to him in this behalf by the tenant within such
time as may be prescribed , order the landlord to place the tenant in occupation
of the premises or part thereof or to pay to the tenant such compensation as
the Controller thinks fit.

Recovery
of possession in
case of
tenancies
for limited
period.

21. Where a landlord does not require the whole or any part of any premises for a particular period. and the landlord, after obtaining the permission
of the Controller in the prescribed manner, lets the whole of the premises or
part thereof as a residence for such period as may be agreed to in writing between the landlord and the tenant and the tenant does not, on the expiry of the
said period, vacate such premises, then, notwithstanding anything contained in
section 14 or in any other law, the Controller may, on an application made to
him in this behalf by the landlord within such time as may be prescribed, place
the landlord in vacant possession of the premises or part thereof by evicting the
tenant and every other person who may be in occupation of such premises.

'cr 59 I

of 1958j

Delhi Rent Control
22. Where the landlord in respect of any premises is any company or other Special
rebony corporate or any local authorit y or a - y p ublic institution and the premises for
covery
are required for the use of employees of such landlord or in the case of a public provision
institution, for the furtherance of its activities, then, notwithstanding anything of possescontained in section 14 or any other law, the Controller may, on an application certain
made to him in this behalf by such landlord, place the landlord in vacant pos- cases
session of such premises by evicting the tenant and every other person who may

be in occupation thereof, if the Controller is satisfied(a) that the tenant to whom such premises were let for use as a residence at a time when he was in the service or employment of the landlord, has ceased to be in such service or employment; or
(b) that the tenant has acted in contravention of the terms, express or
implied, under which lie was authorised to occupy such premises; or
(c) that any other person is in unauthorised occupation of such premises;

or
(d) that the premises are required bona fide by the public institution
for the furtherance of its activities.

Explanation .-For the purposes of this section, "public institution" includes
any educational institution, library . hospital and charitable dispensary.
23. Where the landlord proposes to make any improvement in, or construct
Pcrmtsany °additional structure on, any building which has been let to a tenant and Sion to

the tenant refuses to allow the landlord to make such improvement or construct construct

adu.

such additional structure and the Controller, on an application made to him instruccttures
ures
this behalf by the landlord, is satisfied that the landlord is ready and willing
to commence the work and that such work will not cause any undue hardship
to the tenant, the Controller may permit the landlord to do such work and may
make such other order as he thinks fit in the circumstances of the case.

24. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 14, where any premises Special
which have been let comprise vacant land upon which it is permissible under provision
the building regulations or municipal bye-laws, for the time being in force, to regardmg vacant
erect any building, whether for use as a residence or for any other purpose and building
the landlord proposing to erect such building is unable to obtain possession sites.

of the land from the tenant by agreement with him and the Controller, on an
application made to him in this behalf by the landlord, is satisfied that the landlord is ready and willing to commence the work and that the severance of the
vacant land from the rest of the premises will not cause undue hardship to the
tenant, the Controller may-

(a) direct such severance;
(b) place the landlord in possession of the vacant land;
(c) determine the rent payable by the tenant in respect of the rest of
the premises; and

(d) make such other order as he thinks fit in the circumstances of the
case.

16
Vacant
possession to
landlord

Delhi Rent Control
25. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, where the interest
of a tenant in any premises is dctirmined for any reason whatsoever and any
order is made by the Controller under this Act for the recovery of possession
of such premises, the order shall, subject to the provisions of section 18, be
binding on all persons who may be in occupation of the premises and vacant
possession thereof shall be given to the landlord by evicting all such persons
therefrom:
Provided that nothing
in this section shall apply to any person who has an
independent title to such premises.

'[CHAPTER 111A
SUMMARY TRIAL OF CERTAIN APPLICATIONS
Provislons
of this

Chapter to
have
overriding
effect.
Special
procedure
or the
disposal
of
applications for
eviction
on the
ground of
lion fide
requireInept.

25A. The provisions of this Chapter or any rule made thereunder shall have
effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained elsewhere in
this Act or in any other law for the time being in force.

25B. (1) Every application by a landlord for the recovery o possession of
any premises on the ground specified in clause (e) of the proviso to sub-section
(1) of section 14, or under section 14A, shall be dealt with in accordance with
the procedure specified in this section.
(2) The Controller shall issue summons. in relation to every application
referred to in sub-section (1), in the form specified in the Third schedule.
(3) (a) The Controller shall, in addition to, and simultaneously with the
issue of summons for service on the tenant, also direct the summons to be served by registered post, acknowledgment due, addressed to the tenant or his agent
'empowered to accept the service at the place where the tenant or his agent
actually and voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally works for
gain and may, if the circumstances of the case so require, also direct the publication of the summons in a newspaper circulating in the locality in which the
tenant is last known to have resided or carried on business or personally worked
for gain.
(b) When an acknowledgment purporting to be signed by the tenant or
his agent is received by the Controller or the registered article containing the
summons is received back with an e idorsement purporting to have been made by
a postal employee to the effect that the tenant or his agent had refused to take
delivery of the registered article, the Controller may declare that there has been
a valid service of summons.
(4) The tenant on whom the summons is duly served (whether in the ordinary way or by registered post) in the form specified in the Third Schedule shall
not contest the prayer for eviction -prom the premises unless he files an affidavit
stating the grounds on which he seeks to contest the application for eviction and
obtains leave from the Controller as hereinafter provided; and'in default of his
appearance in pursuance of the summons or his obtaining such leave, the statement made by the landlord in the application for eviction shall be deemed to
be admitted by the tenant and the applicant shall be entitled to all order for
eviction on the ground aforesaid.
'lns. by Act 18 of 1976, s. 6 (w.e.f. t-t2-1975).

of 19581

Delhi Rent Control
(5) The Controller shall give to the tenant leave to contest the application
if the affidavit filed by the tenant discloses such facts as would disentitle the
landlord from obtaining an order for the recovery of possession of the premises
on the ground specified in clause (e) of the proviso to sub-section ( 1) of section
14, or under section 14A.
(6) Where leave is granted to the tenant to contest the application, the Controller shall commence the hearing of the application as early as practicable.
(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) of section 37, the
Controller shall, while holding an inquiry in a proceeding to which this Chapter
applies, follow the practice and procedure of a Court of Small Causes, including the recording of evidence.
(8) No appeal or second appeal shall lie against an order for the recovery
of possession of any premises made by the Controller in accordance with the
procedure specified in this section:
Provided that the High Court may, for the purpose of satisfying itself that
an order made by the Controller under this section is according to law, call for
the records of the case and pass such order in respect thereto as it thinks fit.
(9) Where no application has been made to the High Court t!-, revision,
the Controller may exercise the powers of review in accordance with the provisions of Order XLVII of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure,

5 of 1908. 1908.

(10) Save as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the procedure for the
disposal of an application for eviction on the ground specified in clasue (e) of
the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 14, or under section 14A, shall be the
same as the procedure for the disposal of applications by Controllers.
25C. (1) Nothing contained in sub-section (6) of section 14 shall apply to
residential p remises allot-Act to have
in occuY
pation of aneffect
a landlord who , bein g
g I persont
led to him by the Central Government or any local authority is required by, in a.
or in pursuance of, an order made by that Government or authority to vacate form in
such residential accommodation, or, in default. to incur certain obligations, on relation
the ground that he owns a residential accommodation either in his own namecerta;n
or in the name of his wife or dependent child in the Union territory of Delhi . persons.
(2) in the case of a landlord who, being a person of the category specified
in sub-section (1), has obtained. on the ground specified in clause (e) of the
proviso to sub-section (1) of section 14, or under section 14A, an order for the
eviction of a tenant from any premises , the .Irovisions of sub- section (7) of section 14 shall have effect as if for the words "six months", occurring therein, the
words "two months" were substituted.)

CHAPTER IV
DEPOSIT OF PENT

toeceeiipt
R
26. (1) Every tenant shall pay rent within the time fixed by contract or in t
the absence of such contract , by the fifteenth day of the month next , following given
aid.
for rent
the month for which it is payable.
p

17

19

Delhi Rent Control
i2) Every tenant who makes a payment of rent to his landlord shall be
entitled to obtain forthwith from the landlord or his authorised agent a written
receipt for the amount paid to him, signed by the landlord or his authorised
agent.
(3) If the landlord or his authorscd agent refuses or neglects to deliver
to the tenant a receipt referred to is sub-section (2), the Controller may, on
an application made to him in this behalf by the tenant within two months from
the date of payment and after hearing the landlord or his authoriscd agent, by
order direct the landlord or his authorised agent to pay to the tenant, by way
of damages , such sum not exceeding double the amount of rent paid by the
tenant and the costs of the application and shall also grant a certificate to the
tenant in respect of the rent paid.

Deposit
of rent
by the
tenant.

27. (1) Where the landlord does not accept any rent tendered by the tenant
within the time referred to in section 26 or refuses or neglects to deliver a
receipt referred to therein or where there is a bona fide doubt as to the person
or persons to whom the rent is payable. the tenant may deposit such rent with
the Controller in the prescribed manner.
(2) The deposit shall be accompanied by an application by the tenant containing the following particulars, namely:(a) the premises for which the rent is deposited with a description
sufficient for identifying the premises:

(h) the period for which the rent is deposited:
(c) the name and address of the landlord or the person or persons
claiming to be entitled to such rent:
(d) the reasons and circumstances for which the application for depositing the rent is made:
(e) such other particulars as may be prescribed
(3) On such deposit of the rent being made. the Controller shall send in
the prescribed manner a copy or copies of the application to the landlord or
persons claiming to be entitled to the rent with an endorsement of the date of
the deposit.
(4) If an application is made for the withdrawal of any deposit of rent.
the Controller shall, if satisfied that the applicant is the person entitled to receive
the rent deposited, order the amount of the rent to be paid to him in the
manner prescribed:
Provided that no order for payment of any deposit of rent shall be made
by the Controller under this sub-section without giving all persons named by
the tenant in his application under sub-section (2) as claiming to be entitled
to payment of such rent an opportunity of being heard and such order shall
be without prejudice to the rights of such persons to receive such rent being
decided by a court of competent jurisdiction.

(5) If at the time of filing the application under sub-section (4), but not
after the expiry of thirty days from receiving the notice of deposit, the landlord
or the person or persons claiming to be entitled to the rent complains or complain to the Controller that the statements in the tenant's application of the

of 19581

Delhi Rent Control

19

reasons and circumstances which led him to deposit the rent are untrue, the
Controller, after giving the tenant an opportunity of being heard, may levy on
the terant a fine which may extend to an amount equal to two months' rent,
if the Controller is satisfied that the said statements were materially untrue and
may order that a sum out of the fine realised be raid to the landlord as compensation.

(6) The Controller may, on the complaint of the tenant and after giving
an opportunity to the landlord of being heard, levy on the landlord a fine which
may extend to an amount equal to two months' rent, if the Controller is satisfied
that the landlord, without any reasonable cause, refused to accept rent though
tendered to him within the time referred to in section 26 and may further order
that a sum out of the fine realised be paid to the tenant as compensation.
28. (1) No rent deposited under section 27 shall be considered to have been.iiit
validly deposited under that section. unless the deposit is made within twanty-omit for
one days of the time referred to in section 25 for payment of the rent. d gesg
and cor.-

(^) No such deposit shall be considered to have been validly made, if the senuencc
tenant wilfully makes any ;alse statement in his a pp lication for de Positin3
the 01 re
^ correct
rent, unless the landlord has withdrawn the amount deposited before the dateparticuof filing an application} for
the recover
y from
of lays
is
possession
of the premises
thelars
in
appll^a
tenant.
tion
for
deposit

'3) if the, rent is deposited within the time mentioned in sub-section (1)
and does not cease to be a valid deposit for the reason mentioned in sub-section
(2), the deposit shall constitute payment of rent to the landlord , as if the amount
deposited had been validly tendered.
29. (1) The withdrawal of rent deposited under section 27 in the manner laving
provided therein shall not operate as an admission aainst the person withdraw - as to a.
ing it of the correctness of the rate of rent, the period of default , the amount ofprente
due, or of any other facts stated in the tenant 's application for depositing theand tor
rent under the said section .
of rentt ir.
deposit

(2) Any rent in deposit which is not withdrawn by the landlord or by the
person or persons ent tlel to receive ,"eh. rent shall be forfeited to Government
by an order made by the Controller, if it is not withdrawn before the expiration
of five years from the date of posting of the notice of deposit.

s

(3) Before passing an order of forfeture, the Controller shall give notice
to the landlord or the person or persons entitled to receive the rent in deposit
by registered post at the ,ast known address of such landlord or person or
persons and shall also publish the notice in his office and in any local newsoaner.
• CHAPTER V
HOTELS AND LODGING HOUSES

30. The provisions of this Chanter shall apply to all hotels and lodgingAppli„a_
houses in the areas which, immediately before the 7th day of April, 1958, were tion of
included in the New Delhi Municipal Committee, Municipal Committee. Delhit^r Chapand the Notified Area Committee. Civil Station, Delhi and may be applied by the
Central Government, by notification in the Otfcial Gazette, to hotels and lodging
houses within the limits of such other urban area of the Municipal Corporation
of Delhi as may be specified in the notification:
4-27 M o, LJ&CA184

Delhi Rent Control

20

JACK 1 59

Provided that if the Central Government is of opinion that it would not
he desirable in the public interest to make the provisions of this Chapter applicable to any class of hotels or lodging houses, it may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, exempt such class of hotels or lodging houses from the operation of this Chapter.
31. (1) Where the Controller. on a written complaint or otherwise, has
reason to believe that the charges made for board or lodging or any other
service provided in any hotel or lodging house are excessive, he may fix a
fair rate to be charged for board, lodging or other services provided in the
hotel or lodging house and in fixing such fair rate, specify, separately the rate

1 ixing
of fair
-ate.

for lodging, board or other services.

(2) In determining the fair rate under sub-section (1), the Controller shall
have regard to the circumstances of the case and to the prevailing rate of charges
for the same or similar accommodation, board and service, during the twelve
months 'immediately preceding the 1st day of June, 1951, and to any general
increase in the cost of living after that date.
32. On a written application from the manager of a hotel or the owner
of a lodging house or otherwise, the Controller may, from time to time, revise
the fair rate to be charged for board, lodging or other service in a hotel or ,
lodging house, and fix such rate as he may deem fit having regard to any general
rise or fall in the cost of living which may have occurred after the fixing of
fair rate.

Revision
of fair
rate.

33. When the Controller has determined the fair rate of charges in respect of a hotel or lodging house,-

Cliargcn
n excess
of fair
rate not
recoverible

(a) the manager of the hotel or the owner of the lodging house, as
the case may be, shall not charge any amount in excess of the fair rate and
shall not, except with the previous written permission of the Controller,
withdraw from the lodger any concession or service allowed at the time
when the Controller determined the fair rate;
(b) any agreement for the payment of any charges in excess of such
fair rate shall be void in respect of such excess and shall be construed as if
it were an agreement for payment of the said fair rate;

•

Recover
of posses
,ion by
manager
of a hotel
ar the
owner or
a lodging house

(c) any sum paid by a lodger in excess of the fair rate shall be recoverable by him at any time within a period of six months from the date of
the payment from the manager of the hotel or the owner of the lodging
house or his legal representatives and may, without prejudice to any-other
mode of recovery, be deducted by such lodger from any amount payable
by him to such manager or owner.
34. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the manager of a
hotel or the owner of a lodging house shall be entitled to recover possession of
the accommodation provided by him to a lodger on obtaining a certificate from
the Controller certifying-

(a) that the lodger has been guilty of conduct which is a nuisance or
which causes annoyance to any. adjoining or neighbouring lodger.
Explanation. For the purposes of this clause, / " nuisance" shalt be
deemed to include any act which constitutes an offence under the. Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Girls Act, 1956; . 104 of 1956.

t'l 9581

Delhi Rent Control

21

(b) that the accommodation is reasonably and bona fide required by
the owner of the hotel or lodging house, as the ease may be
, either for his
own occupation or for the occupation of any person for whose benefit the
accommodation i s held, or any other cause which may be deemed satisfactory to the Controller;

(() that the lodger has failed to vacate the accommodation on the termination of the period of the agreement in respect thereof:
(d) that the lodger has done

any which is inconsistent with the
purpose for which the accommodation was given to him or which is likely
to affect adversely or substantially the owner's interest therein;
(e) that the lodger has failed to pay the rent due from him.

CHAPTER VI
APPOINTMENT OF CONTROLLERS AND THEIR POWERS AND FUNCTIONS AND
APPEALS

35. (1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official AppointGazette, appoint as many Controllers as it thinks fit. and define the local limitsment of
within which , or the hotels and lodging houses in respect of which, each Con- less and
troller shall exercise the powers conferred , and perform the duties imposed . on addLional
Controllers by or under this Act. e ntrolIcrs

(2) The. Central Government may also, by notification in the Official
Gazette, appoint as many Controllers as it thinks fit, and define the local limits
tional Controller shall perform such of the functions of the Controller as may,
subject to the control of the Central Government, be assigned to him in writing
by the Controller and in the discharge of these functions, an additional Controller shall have and shall exercise the same powers and discharge the same
duties as the Controller.
(3) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Controller or
an additional Controller, unless he has for at least five years held a judicial
office in India or has for at least seven years been practising as an advocate or
a pleader in India.

36. (1) The Controller may- Powers
of Coo-

(a) transfer any proceeding pending before him for disposal to any troller,
additional Controller,, or
(b) withdraw any proceeding pending before any additional Controller
and dispose it of himself or transfer the proceeding for disposal to any
other additional Controller-

(2) The Controller shall have the same powers as are vested in a civil
or 108. court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, when trying a suit, in respect
of the following matters, namely:.(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance o: any person and examining him on oath:
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents;
(c) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses;

22

Delhi Rent Control

JAtrr 59

(d) any other matter which may be prescribed;

and any proceeding before the Controller shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of section 193 and section 228 of the Indian Penal
Code, and the Controller shall be deemed to be a civil court within the meaning 45 of 1860,
of section 480 and section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898. 5 of 1898.
(3) For the purposes of holding any inquiry or discharging any duty under
this Act, the Controller may,(a) after giving not less than twenty-four hours' notice in writing, enter
and inspect or authorise any officer subordinate to him to enter and inspect
any premises at any time between sunrise and sunset; or
(b) by written order, require any person to produce for his inspection all
such accounts. books or other documents re'evant to the inquiry at such
time and at such place as may be specified in the order.
(4) The Controller may, if he thinks fit. appoint one or more persons having
special knowledge of the matter under consideration as an assessor or assessors
to advise him in the proceeding before him.
Procedure
to be followed by
Controller.

37. (1) No order which prejudicially affects any person shall be made by
the Controller under this Act without giving him a reasonable opportunity of
showing cause against i e order proposed to be made and until his objections,
if any, and any evidence he may prodtr ° e in support of the same have been considered by the Controller.
t2) Subject to any rules that may be made under this Act , the Controller
shall, while hold i ng an inquiry in any proceeding before him , follow as far
as may be the practice and procedure of a court of small causes , including the
recording o€ evidence.
(3) In all proceedings before him, the Controller shall consider the question of costs and award such costs to or against any party as the Controller con
oiders reasonable.

Appeal
'o the
Tribunal.

38. (1) An appeal shall lie from every order of the Controller made under
this Act to ti -.e Control Tribunal hereinafter referred to as the Tribunal)

consisting of one person only to be appointed by the Central Government by
notification in the Official Gazette.
(2) An appeal under sub-section (1) shall be preferred within thirty days
form the date of the order made by the Controller:
Provided that the Tribunal may entertain the appeal after the expiry of
the said pcriod of thirty days. iI' it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented
by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(3) The Tribunal shall have all the powers vested in a court under the Code

of Civil Procedure, 1908, when hearing an appeal. - sot' 1908,
t4) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (3),

the

Tribunal

may, on an application made to it or otherwise. by order transfer any proceeding
pending hefere any Controller or additional Controller to another Controller
or additional Controller and the Controller or additional Controller to whom the
proceeding is so transferred may. subject to any special di'ections in the order of
transfer. dispose of the proceeding.

OF 1958]
Delhi. Rent Control

23
(S) A person shall not be qualified for appointment to the Tribunal, unless
he is, in
orIndia.
has been, a district judge or has for at least ten years held a judicial
office

[38A. (1) For the expeditious disposal of a
section 38, the Central Government may , ppeio and apOfficial aetterwddi
constitute
many Additional Rent Control Tribunals as ithdeemcfit and ap-Control
entpoint to each such Additional Rent Control Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as R
the Additional
personTribunal) one Tribuin
as with the Provisions
°ats.
appointment
accordance
section. the Tribunal
of sub -section (S) of
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 38, the Tribunal may, by
order in writing,(a) specify the appeals or classes of appeals under sub-section (1) of
that section which may be preferred to and disposed of by each Additional
Tribunal and the classes of cases in which each Additional Tribunal may exercise the powers of the Tribunal under sub-section (4) of that section;
(b) transfer any appeal or proceedin
any Additional Tribunal: or g pending before it for disposal to
(c) withdraw any appeal or proceeding pending before any Additional
Tribunal and dispose it of itself or transfer the appeal or proceeding for disposal to any other Additional Tribunal.

(3)

The provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3)
of section 38 shall apply in
relation to an Additional Tribunal as they apply in relation to the Tribunal.
38B. transferThe High Court may also, on an application made to it or otherwise, Power of
by order,
(s) any Y appeal or proceeding court to
tional Tribunal; or pending before the Tribunal to any Addi- transfer
appeals,

(b) any appeal
or bfore
proceeding etc.
pending
to the Tribunal or to any other Additional Tribunal.] any Additional Tribunal

39. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), an appeal shall lie Second
to
the
from an order made by '[the Tribunal or an Additional Tribunal] appeal.
within High
sixty Court
days from
the date of such order:

Provided that the High Court may entertain the appeal after the expiry of
the said period of sixty days, if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented
by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(2) No appeal shall lie under sub-section (1), unless the appeal involves
some substantial question of law.
40. Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in any order passed by a Control- Amendler or '[the Tribunal or an Additional Tribunal] or errors arising therein from any ment of
accidental slip or omission may, at any time, be corrected by the Controller or
'[the Tribunal or an Additional Tribunal] on an application received in this behalf orders.
from any of the parties or otherwise.

41, Any fine imposed by a Controller under this Act shall be paid by Controller
the person fined within such time as may be allowed by the Controller and 10 exerthe Controller may, for good
and sufficient
reason, se
extend the
time, and in "'e
default
of
such
powers
of a

payment, the amount shall be recoverable as a fine under the magistrate
of 1898. provisions of the Code of Criminal procedure, 1898, and the Controller shall be -overy
deemed to be a magistrate under the said for re

Code for the purposes of
%s
su=ery
of
ne.
. by Act 37 of 19A4, s. 2. fine.
ibid.,
for "the Tribunal".
5-27 M of LJ&CAJS4 'Subs. by s. 3,

24
Delhi Rent Control
Controller
to exercise powers
of civil
court for
execution
of other
orders.
Finality
of order.

42. Save as otherwise provided in section 41, an order made by the Controller or an order passed on appeal under this Act shall be executable by the
Controller as a decree of a civil court and for this purpose, the Controller shall
have all the powers of a civil court.

43. Save as otherwise expressely provided in this Act, every order made by
the Controller or an order passed on appeal under this Act shall be final and shall
not be called in question in any original suit, application or execution proceeding.
CHAPTER VII
PROVISIONS REGARDING SPECIAL OBLIGATIONS OF LANDLORDS AND
PENALTIES

Landlord's
duty to keep the
premises
in good
repair.

44. (1) Every landlord shall be bound to keep the premises in good and
tenantable repairs.
(2) If the landlord neglects or fails to make, within a reasonable time
after notice in writing, my repairs which he is bound to make under sub-section
(I), the tenant may make the same himself and deduct the expenses of such
repairs from the rent or otherwise recover them from the landlord:
Provided that the amount so deducted or recoverable in any year shall not
exceed one-twelfth of the rent payable by the tenant for that year.
(3) Where any repairs without which the premises are not habitable or
useable except with undue inconvenience are to be made and the landlord
neglects or fails to make them after notice in writing, the tenant may apply
to the Controller for permission to make such repairs himself and may
submit to the Controller an estimate of the cost of such repairs, and, thereupon,
the Controller may, after giving the landlord an opportunity of being heard and
after considering such estimate of the cost and making such inquiries as he may
consider necessary, by an order in writing, permit the tenant to make such repairs at such cost as may be specified in the order and it shall thereafter be lawful for the tenant to make such repairs himself and to deduct the cost thereof,
which shall in no case exceed the amount so specified, from the rent or otherwise recover it from the landlord:
Provided that the amount so deducted or recoverable in any year shall
not exceed one-half of the rent payable by the tenant for that year:
Provided further that if any repairs not covered by the said amount are
necessary in the opinion of the Controller, and the tenant agrees to bear the
excess cost himself, the Controller may permit the tenant to make such repairs.

Cutting
off or
withholding essential supply
or service.

45. (1) Ne landlord either himself or through any person purporting to
act on his behalf shall without just and sufficient cause cut off or withhold
any essential supply or service enjoyed by the tenant in respect of the premises
let to him.
(2) If a landlord contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1), the tenant
may
tion. make an application to the Controller complaining of such contraven(3) If the Controller is satisfied that essential supply or service was cut
off or withheld by the landlord with a view to compel the tenant to vacate
the premises or to pay an enhanced rent, the Controller may pass an order
directing the landlord to restore the amenities immediately, pending the inquiry
referred to in sub-section (4).

[ACT 59,

OF 1958]

Delhi Rent Control

Explanation.-An
interim order may be passed under this sub-section without giving notice to the landlord.
(4) If the Controller on inquiry finds that the essential supply or service
enjoyed by the tenant in respect of the premises was cut off or withheld by
the landlord without just and sufficient cause, he shall make an order directing
the landlord to restore such supply or service.
(5) The Controller may in his discretion direct that compensation not
exceeding fifty rupees(a) be paid to the landlord by the tenant, if the application under subsection (2) was made frivolously or vexatiously;
(b) be paid to the tenant by the landlord, if the landlord had cut
off or withheld the supply or service without just and sufficient cause.
Explanation L-In this section, " essential
supply or service" includes supply
of water , electricity, lights in passages and on staircases
, conservancy and sanitary
services.
Explanation

11.-For the purposes of this section, withholding any essential
supply or service shall include acts or omissions attributable to the landlord
on account of which the essential supply or service is cut off by the local
authority or any other competent authority.
46. Whenever, after the commencement of this Act, any premises are con-Landlord's
strutted, the landlord shall, within thirty days of the completion of such con- duty to
struction, give intimation thereof in writing to the '[Director of Estates]
11
or to 8otT
such other officer as may be specified in this behalf by the Government.
newcconstruction
to Gov-

ernment.
47. (1) The provisions of this section shall apply only in relation
to pre- L eases of
mises in the areas which, immediately before the 7th day of April, 1958, were vacant
included in the New Delhi Municipal Committee and which are, or are intended to Govto be, let for use as a residence.
ernment.
(2) Whenever any premises the standard rent of which is not less than
two thousand and four hundred rupees per year becomes vacant either by the
landlord ceasing to occupy the premises or by the termination of a tenancy or
by the eviction of a tenant or by the release of the premises from requisition or
otherwise,(a) the landlord shall, within seven days of the premises becoming
vacant, give intimation thereof in writing to the '[Director of Estates];
(b) whether or not such intimation is given, the '[Director of Estates]
may serve on the landlord by post or otherwise a notice(1) informing him that the premises are required by the Government for such period as may be specified in the notice; and
(ft) requiring him, and every person claiming under him, to deliver
possession of the premises forthwith to such officer or person as may
be specified in the notice:
Provided that where the landlord has given the intimation required by clause
(a), no notice shall be issued by the -[Director of Estates]
under clause (b) more
than seven days after the delivery to him of the intimation:
'Subs. by Act 58 of 1960, s. . 3 and Sch.
II, for "Estate Officer to the Government of India",
'Subs. by s. 3 and Scb . II, ibid., for "Estate Officer".

26

Delhi Rent Control
Provided further that nothing in this sub - section shall apply in respect of
any premises the possession of which has been obtained by the landlord on the
basis of an y order made on the ground set forth in clause (
e) of the proviso to
sub-section ( 1) of section 14 or in respect of any premises which have been released from requisition for the use and occupation of the landlord himself.

(3) Upon the service of a notice under clause (b) of sub-section (2), the premises shall be deemed to have been leased to the Government for the period specitied in the notice , as from the date of the delivery of the intimation under clause
(a) of sub-section ( 2) or in a case where no such intimation has been given, as
from the date on which possession of the premises is delivered in pursuance of
the notice, and the other terms of the lease shall be such as may be agreed upon
between the Government and the landlord or in default of agreement , as may be
determined by the Controller, in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(4) In every case where the landlord has in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (2) given intimation of any premises becoming vacant and the premises are not taken on lease by the Government under this section , the Governntent shall pay to the landlord a sum equal to one - fifty-second of the standard
rent per year of the premises.
(5) Any premises taken on lease by the Government under this section may
be put to any such use as the Government thinks fit, and in particular, the
Government may permit the use of the premises for the purposes of any public
institution or any foreign embassy , legation or consulate or any High Commissioner or Trade Commissioner , or as a residence by any officer in the service of
the Government or of a foreign embassy, legation or consulate or of a High
Commissioner or Trade Commissioner.
Penalties . 48. (1) If any person contravenes any of the provisions of section 5, he shall
be punishable-

(a) in the case of a contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1)
of section 5, with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
months, or with fine which may extend to a sum which exceeds the unlawful charge claimed or received under that sub-section by one thousand
rupees, or with both;
(b) in the case of a contravention of the provisions of sub-section (2) or
sub-section (3) of section 5, with simple imprisonment for a term which
may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to a sum
which exceeds the amount or value of unlawful charge claimed or received
under the said sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), as the case may be, by five
thousand rupees, or with both.
(2) If any tenant sub-lets, assigns or otherwise parts with the possession
of the whole or part of any premises in contravention of the provisions of clause
1b) of the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 14, he shall be punishable with
fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
(3) If any landlord re-lets or transfers the whole or any part of any premises
in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section
19, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
three months, or with fine, or with both.

(4) If any landlord contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) of section
45,E he shall be punishable with imprisonment for term which may extend to
three months, or with fine, or with both.

(ACT 59

OF 19

58]

Delhi Rent Control

27
(5) If any landlord fails to comply with the provisions of section 46 he shall
be punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees.
(6) If any person contravenes the provisions of clause (a) of sub-section (2)
of section 47, or fails to comply with a requirement under clause (b) thereof, he
shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to
three months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with
both.
49. (1) No court inferior to that of a magistrate of the first class shall trycogniany offence punishable under this Act.
(2) No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this Act,
unless the complaint in respect of the offence has been made within three months
from the date of the commission of the offence.
of 1898.

Lance of
offences.

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 32 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1898, it shall be lawful for any magistrate of the first class to pass
a sentence of fine exceeding two thousand rupees on a person convicted of an
offence punishable under this Act.
CHAPTER VIII
MISCELLANEOUS
50. (1) Save as

otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no civil court shallluris-

entertain any suit or proceeding in so far as it relates to the fixation of standard diction of
rent in relation to any premises to which this Act applies or to eviction of an evil courts
tenant therefrom or to any other matter which the Controller is empowered b spect of
certain
by or ender this Act to decide, and no injunction in respect of an
iv l utters.
or to be taken by the Controller under this Act shall be granted
y byttanyt taken
court or other authority.
(2) If, immediately before the commencement of this Act, there is any
suit or proceeding pending in any civil court for the eviction of any tenant
from any premises to which this Act applies and the construction of which has
been completed after the 1st day of June, 1951, but before the 9th day of June,
1955, such suit or proceeding shall, on such commencement, abate.
(3) If, in pursuance of any decree or order made by a court, any tenant has
been evicted after the 16th day of August, 1958, from any premises to which
this Act applies and the construction of which has been completed after the 1st
day of June, 1951, but before the 9th day of June, 1955, then, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, the Controller may, on an application made
to him in this behalf by such evicted tenant within six months from the date of
eviction, direct the landlord to put the tenant in possession of the premises or
to pay him such compensation as the Controller thinks fit.
(4) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be construed as preventing a civil court
from entertaining
any suit or proceeding for the decision of any question of title
to any premises to which this Act applies or any question as to the person or
persons who are entitled to receive the rent of such premises.
51. All Controllers and additional Controllers appointed under this Act controlshall he deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the lens to be
45 of 1860. Indian Penal Code. sevc
servaants.
52. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie
against anyProtection
Controller or additional Controller in respect of anything which is in goodoact`o
faith done or intended to be done in nursuane ofh;U A,.. tak in

28

Delhi Rent Control

[ACT 59

53. [Amendment of the Delhi Tenants (Temporary Protection) Act, 1956.]
Repealed by the Repealing and Amending Act, 1960 (58 of 1960), s. 2 and Sch. I.
Saving of
operation
of certain
enactments.

54. Nothing in this Act shall affect the provisions of the Administration of
Evacuee Property Act, 1950, or the Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) 31 of 1950.
Act, 1956, or the Delhi Tenants (Temporary Protection) Act, 1956. 96 of 1956.
97 of 1956.

Special
provision
regarding
decrees
affected by
the Delhi
Tenants
(Temporary Protection) Act,
1956.

55. Where any decree or order for the recovery of possession of any
premises to which the Delhi Tenants (Temporary Protection) Act, 1956, applies 97 of 1956.
is sought to be executed on the cesser of operation of that Act in relation to
those premises, the court executing the decree or order may,. on the application of
the person against whom the decree or order has been passed or otherwise,
reopen the case and if it is satisfied that the decree or order could not have been
passed if this Act had been in force on the date of the decree or order, the
court may, having regard to the provisions of this Act, set aside the decree or
order or pass such other order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.

Power to
make
rules.

56. (1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:(a) the form and manner in which, and the period within which, an
application may be made to the Controller;
(b) the form and manner in which an application for deposit of rent
may be made and the particulars which it may contain;
(c) the manner in which a Controller may hold an inquiry under this
Act;
(d) the powers of the civil court which may be vested in a Controller;
(e) the form and manner in which an application for appeal or transfer
of proceeding may be made to the Tribunal;
(f) the manner of service of notices under this Act;
(g) any other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed.
'[(3) Every rule made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following
the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any
modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made.
the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect,
as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.]

Repeal
and
savings.

57. (1) The Delhi and Ajmer Rent Control Act, 1952, in so far as it is ap- 38 of 1952.
plicable to the Union territory of Delhi, is hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, all suits and other proceedings under the
said Act pending, at the commencement of this Act, before any court or other
authority shall be continued and disposed of in accordance with the provisions
of the said Act, as if the said Act had continued in force and this'Act had not
been passed :
'Subs. by Act 37 of 1984, s. 4, for sub -section (3).

OF 1958]

Delhi Rent Control
Provided that in any such suit or proceeding for the
fixation of standard
rent or for the eviction of a tenant from any premises to which section 54 does
not apply, the court or other authority shall have regard to the provisions of
this Act:

Provided further that the provisions for appeal under the said Act shall
continue in force in respect of suits and proceedings disposed of thereunder.

THE FIRST SCHEDULE
[See section ](2)]
THE URBAN AREAS WITHIN THE LIMITS OF THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF
DELHI TO WHICH THE ACT EXTENDS

The areas which, immediately before the 7th April, 1958, were included in66 of

]. The Municipality of New Delhi excluding the area specified in the
1957. First Schedule to the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957;
2. the Municipal Committee, Delhi;
3. The Notified Area Committee, Civil Station, Delhi;
4. the Municipal Committee Delhi-Shahdara;
5. the Notified Area Committee, Red Fort:
6. the Municipal Committee, West Delhi;
7. the South Delhi Municipal Committee;
8. the Notified Area Committee , Mehrauli.

THE SECOND SCHEDULE
[See sections 2(a) and 6(1)]
BASIC RENT

1. In this Schedule, "basic rent" in relation to any premises let out before
the 2nd June ,
1944, means the original rent of such premises referred to in
paragraph 2 increased by such percentage of the original rent as is specified in paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 or paragraph 5, as the case may be.
2. "Original rent", in relation to premises referred to in paragraph 1,
means25 of 1944,

(a) where the rent of such premises has been fixed under the New Delhi
House
Rent Control Order, 1939, or the Delhi Rent Control Ordinance, 1944,
the rent so fixed; or
(b) in any other case,(r) the rent at which the premises were let on the 1st November,
1939, or
(Fr) if the premises were not let on that date ,
the rent at which
they were first let out at any time after that date but before the 2nd
June, 1944.
3. Where the premises to which paragraph 2 applies are let out for the
;purpose of being used as a residence or for any of the purposes of a public

29

30
Delhi Rent Control

[ACT 59 OF 1958

hospital, an educational institution, a public library or reading room or an orphanage, the basic rent of the premises shall be the original rent increased by(a) 12-1/2 per cent. thereof, if the original rent per annum is not more
than Rs. 300;
(b) 15-5/8 per cent. thereof, if the original rent per annum is more
than Rs. 300 but not more than Rs. 600;

(c) 18-3/4 per cent. thereof, if the original rent per annum is more than
Rs. 600 but not more than Rs. 1,200;
(d) 25 per
cent. thereof, if the original rent per annum is more than
Rs. 1,200.
4. Where the premises 10 which paragraph 2 applies aret let
out for any
purpose other than those mentioned in paragraph 3, the basic rent of the
Premises shall be the original rent increased by twice the amount by which
it would be increased under paragraph 3, if the premises were let for a purpose
mentioned in that paragraph.

5. Where the premises to which paragraph 2 applies are used mainly as a
residence and incidentally for business or profession, the basic rent of the premises shall be the mean of the rent as calculated under paragraphs 3 and 4.
'[THE THIRD! SCHEDULE
[See section 25B (2)]
FORM OF SUMMONS IN A CASE WHERE RECOVERY OF POSSESSION OF
PREMISES IS PRAYED FOR ON THE GROUND OF
bona fide
REQUIREMENT OR UNDER SECTION 14A.

To
[Name, description and place of residence of the tenant.]
WHEREAS Shri...........has filed an application (a copy of which is annexed)
for your eviction from (here insert the particulars of the premises) on the ground
specified in clause (e) of the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 14, or under
section 14A;
You are hereby summoned to appear before the Controller within fifteen
days of the service hereof and to obtain the leave of the Controller to contest
the application for eviction on the ground aforesaid; in default whereof, the
applicant will be entitled at any time after the expiry of the said period of fifteen
days to obtain an order for your eviction from the said premises.
Leave to appear and contest the application may be obtained on an application to the Controller supwxted by an affidavit as is referred to in sub-section
(5) of section 25B.
Given under my hand and seal.
This day of 19
Controller.]

'Ins. by Act 18 of 1976, s. 7 (w.e.f. 1-12-1976).
MGIPCBE -38-27 M of W & CA/84-.7,550.

