16, DELHI GAZETTE : EXTRAORDINARY [Parr I

IS}

| (@ wi tel sk et S afar after a
ssi diem aren ae wen fruifty aren fray ver faa eral
# anit a am-aren wit si eral a watt ai

att;

(@) aH: afta Gar a wearet oa F seea
a a ara at sadern a aad SA SF TAT;
aay

(3) we so armen st freat are atid 2 a
sural wad wt aaah é;

| (3) Fe afatrar & ante een err falta yore

| Fam ad ors yes Tea Tess UsErh aa eee wh

fear aA tga fire Se aa goa He 30 Peal a aa
Bot WH mg: ar Sk aafiras errant Y et aera 8 eT
afe aa #1 gifs a yea MMA Ba Bl STR TTA
aad dt fear oon front a ae aie wet A aed t
Wa Fa aS ae @ fs fran ae wae A THieE Te
Fray Sah WA Fae. Tat ores BI Ay eh Mn ser
aig ware wel et Stet eft feet eT fia ft tat ag
AR ay Freee sa Fras & area weed feu we ech ara
at deren Ue Uta Tae Stet BT eA

64, Weardier at viiet—(1) aeRR, werd TTA

4 vente stfirgeen are fee 2 ect @ fee ge ofa ous
& avn sad go ree st ot ant aia saa ee
ait ehh Cafe at et) dar afirgen Yow aS

aftranfeal arr wan Ping oi ara wena e
(2) Peers ares ert Fear 2 aera? fr sa afar

& ae a sah ge sa Sh we ae eat a we wa

aft et feerrat A wen sak are eet Cafe wy eh) Se
fe ae 7 fafafee: ot, WER St ot wer area F
fahige afer Gar & fat sified grr at seit

65, fra sit wera_sa offre & ua eh a

witha Y-

(an) Rech orn feat eigen be aes ae

aifaPrry, 1944 (1944 wt Ath. afar Fem 3) Al TE

MT SET

Ca) feet afta teen cen afta geen afte,
1986 (1986 1 56) wat Te APT SITT;

(7) and cea afafran, 1935 st arr 241 at
Su-un (1) BS @s (@) wa sa-aMT (2) S @s (a)
ants Fifta feeet aftasea dan (dies dan) Frasract,
1945 @l te AAT SET :

sidy ¢ fe Ua fren feet cori wit F

Brad Serer sl Ufa aes, sees He aT HA aT

of few Preafafad dg set aoe are :-

»

“(®) ORR grt Hae Ten A ‘arf
sera & fore wa agld atk afta dh soeea
ait Sra Ta-Tara BTM;

(@) Gaara aaa & fa farras & few sofa
Sar ;

(71) safer ear fare wee aT ay ge
wate ey S aera 33 aw fare ar} anterital ai
aM,

(8) wearer te soe eer at afirais at a
at ae at a aM at hers a tet S so et

66, Hlstsat Ee BEA at wled—ale ea aft
Se srdel a yore aa A ale ot wierd ont t at aan
TRE Usted A yee AT SIT Ua Seay TAT Gi
afafian } audel @ arina a i a aiatd aes
TH BR TTS wea BT: :

syde S fie ter sneer ra afar swe BF a I
af set arent Tea eT anit

(2) Ure a ares fhe reer ee eA a Ee
ara facet we fears a A oa are)"
aeoeyn fam wa, Ta afaa
(DEPARTMENT OFLAW, “SUSTICE AND

LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS)
NOTIFICATION
Delhi, the 12th February, 2009

No. F. 14(15)/97-LAD/IC law/5362.—The following
Act of the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital
Territory of Delhi received the assent of the President of
India on 17th January, 2009 and is hereby publ lished for
general information :—

“The Delhi Fire Service Act, 2007
“(Delhi Act 2 of 2009)

(As passed by the Legislative Assembly of the
National Capital Territory of Delhi on the 17th September,
2007)

[17th January, 2009]

An Act to provide for the maintenance ofa fire service
and to make more effective provisions for the fire prevention
and fire safety measures in certain buildings and premises
in the National Capital Territory of Delhi and the matter
connected therewith.

Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the
National Capital Territory of Delhi in the Fifty-eighth Year
of the Republic of India as follows :—
f

/ : . ;
fo . . _ . Jue.
of Pari. DELHI GAZETTE : EXTRAORDINARY . aa

é CHAPIER

1

roy : ee
(“fire prevention and fire safety measures” means

1. Short title, extent arid commencetient—-(1) This

Act tnay be ealled the Delhi Fire Service Act, 2007. _

(3) it extends to the Whole of the National Capital

Territory of Beit’

(3) it shall eve into force in ary atea on such date

as the Govettivient iiay, By fetifieation in the official
Gazette, appoilit atid different dates may be appelnted for
different areas anid for different provisions of this Act.

2. Definitions.—in this Act, titiless the sontext

otherwise requires}

(a) “appellate authority” means the Lieutenant
Govetiior or an Sffieer appointed by the
Lieutefiant Governor;

8) “buildiig” means any structute whether of

iaseniry bricks, Woods, mud, metal or other
iiidtetiais atid ineludes a hause, out-house,
basement, indergrotitid parkitig stable, latrine,

-——atindl shed, hut.of wall (other than a bouiidary
wall);

(©) “building bye-laiws" ineaiis the bye-laws made
iifider Seétion 186 ofthe Cahtonnients Aet, 1924
(2 of 1924) ot the bye-laws made under Section
349A of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act,
1957 (66 of 1957) or the bye-laws trade under
sub-sectiat (2) of Section 60 of die New Delhi
Municipal Coutieil Act, 1994 (44:ef 1994) ar the
tegulations made under sub-section (1) of
Section 57 of the Dethi Developinent Act, 1957
(61 of 1957), ot the bye-laws made by the Central
Govettiment by publication in the official Gazette,
rélating to buildings in Delhi;

() Del” means the National Capital Territery of

(e) “Director* means the Direeter, Dell Fire Service
appointed by the Government under aub-
section (1) of Section 8 of this Act:

-) “erector of pandal® means a person of af

association of persons, whether corporate oF
otherwise, who erecta or makes a panidal ar any
structure for occupation of people on a regular
or temporary basis;

(g) “fire division” means a territory of State
comprising such number of fire sub-devisions
as may be prescribed; and declared generally or
specially by the Government to be a fire division
for the purpose of this Act;

(h) “fire zone” means territory comprising such
number of fire divisions as may be prescribed
and declared generally and specially by the
Government to be a fire zone for the purpose of
this Act;

290 PJ -~ 2

such measures as are necessary in accordance ~
with the building bye-laws/National Building
Code of India for the containment, control and
extinguishing of fire and for ensuring the safety

of life and property in case of fire and as may be

prescribed in the rules made in this behalf;

“fire safety officer” means the person appointed
urider Section 29 of this Act as fire safety officer
by the owners and occupiers of certain premises
and buildings as specified in this behalf to

“ensure fire prevention and fire safety measures

installed in such premises and buildings;
“fire officer” means any operational member of
the Fire Service;

“Fire Service” means the Delhi Fire Service
constituted under Section 5 of this Act;

“fire station” means a building erected to house
the fire fighting equipment, appliances and staff
declared generally or specially by the
Government to be a fire station for the purposes
of this Act;

“fire sub-division” means the territory within a
fire division comprising such number of fire
stations as may be prescribed; and declared
generally or specially by thie Government to be
a fire sub-division for the purpose of this Act;
“Governterst” means the Lieutenant Governor
of Delhi appointed by the President under article
239 and designated as such under article 239AA
of the Constitution;

} “Lieutenant Governor” means the Lieutenant

Governor of Delhi appointed by the President
under article 239 of the Constitution;

} “local authority” means the Delhi Cantonment

Boafd established under the Cantonments Act,
1924 (2 of 1924), the Delhi Develpment Authority —

established under the Delhi Development Act,

1957 (61 of 1957), the Municipal Corporation of
Delhi established under the Delhi Municipal
Corporation Act, 1957 (66 of 1957), the New
Dethi Municipal Council established under the

New Delhi Municipal Council Act, 1994 (44 of
1994); or any other authority under any other
law which may be notified in this behalf by the
Central Government or the Government, as the
case may be;

“member” in relation to the Fire Service means a
person appointed to the Fire Service under this
Act;

“multistoreyed building” means a building with
such minimum height as may be prescribed under
the rules in this behalf, and notified to the
Director by the local authority; .

[Part [

DELHI GAZETT! E : EXTRAORDINARY

(t) “nominated authority” means an officer not
below the rank of a station officer nominated by
the Director as a nominated authority for the
purposes of this Act;

(u) “occupancy” means the principal occupancy for
which a building or a part of a building is used
or intended to be used including subsidiary
occupancies which are contingent upon it;

(v) “occupier” includes—

(i) any person who, for the time being, is
- paying or is liable to pay, to the owner the
rent or any portion of the rent of the land
or building in*¥espect of which such rent
is paid or is payable;
(i) an: owner in occupation of, or otherwise
using his land or building;
(ii) a rent-free tenant of any land or building;
(iv) a licensee in occupation of any land or
“-building; and
(v) any person who is liable to pay to the
owner damages for the use and
occupation of any land or building;

“officet-in-charge” means a fire officer in charge

of a fire station;

(x) “operatiénal member” of the Fire Service means
any member of the Fire Service who is required
to drive or operate.a fire fighting vehicle, fire
fighting equipment and appliance at the site of
fire and participate in the actual extinction of
fire; .

(y) “owner” includes a person who, for the time
being, is entitled to receive, the rent of any land
or building, whether on his own account or on
account of himself-and others or as an agent,
trustee, guardian orreceiver or any other person,
or who should so receive the rent or be entitled
to receive it if the land or building or part thereof
were let to a tenant and also includes—

@ the custodian of evacuee property in
respect of evacuee property vested in him
under the Administration of Evacuee
Property Act,1950 (31 of 1950);

Gi) the Director of Estates of the Government
of India, the Secretary of the State
Development Authority constituted under
the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of
1957), the General Manager of a.railway
and the head of a Government department,
in respect of properties under their
respective control;

4) “pandal” means a temporary structure with roof
or walls made of straw, hay, ulu grass, golpatta,
hogla, derma, mat, canvas,. cloth or other like
material which is not adopted for permanent or
continuous occupancy;

erg

(w

(za) “premises” means any land or any building o
part of a building and includes the garden
ground and outhouse, if any, appurtaining to ;
building or part of a building’’and any land o:
any building or part of'a building appurtenan
thereto which is used for storing explosives

explosive substance and dangerously
inflammable substance;

Explanation :—In this clause, “explosive”,
“explosive substance” and “dangeroulsy
' “inflammable substance” shall have the meaning,
respectively assigned to them in the Explosive
Act, 1884-(4 of 1884), the Explosive (Substances)
Act, 1908 (6 of 1908) and the Inflammable
Substances Act, 1952 (20 of 1952);
_ (zb) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made
under this Act;
(zc) “prescribed authority” means authority
prescribed by rules under this Act;

(zd) “Sub-Divisional Magistrate” means an officer
of the Government appointed as Sub-Divisional
Magistrate. under sub-section (4) of section 20
of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 @ of
1974);

(ze) “subordinate operational staff” includes every
- member of the Fire Service of the rank of fireman,
leading fireman, driver and any other equivalent

-3'rank;

* OH “station officer” means an officer of the Fire
Service appointed as station officer by the
Government.

CHAPTER-IL :

ORGANISATION, SUPERINTENDENCE, CONTROL
AND MAINTENANCE OF THE FIRE SERVICE

3. One Fire Service for whole of Delhi—There shall

be one Fire Service for the whole of Delhi and all officers
and subordinate ranks of the fire.service shall be liable for
posting to any branch of the Fire Service :

Provided that this provision shall not apply to the
private fire services maintained for providing fire protection
coverage to a specific building or industry by the owner or
occupier thereof.

4. Superintendence of Fire Service to vest in the
Government.—The superintendence of, and control over,
the Fire Service throughout Delhi shall vest in the
Government and the Fire Service shall be administered by
the Government in accordance with the provisions of this
Act and of any rules made thereunder, through such fire
officers as the Government may, from time to time, appoint
in this behalf. ;

5. Constitution of Fire Service.—Subject to the
provisions of this Act,-— .

(a) the Fire Service shall consist of such numbers
in the several ranks and have such organisation
‘crestomateeumeans AY

pe

DELHI GAZETTE : EXTRAORDINARY 49

Part IV]

and such powers, functions and duties as the
Government may by general or special order,
_ determine; and’
(b) the recruitment to, and the pay, allowances and
| all other conditions of service of the members
of, the Fire Service shall be such as may be
prescribed.

6. Classification of post of Fire Service.—The
classification of the posts of the Fire Service shall be as
under :—

® Group ‘A’ post means any post which having
regard to its scale of pay and emoluments would,
if such post had been in the Central Govrnment,
be classified as a Group ‘A’ post under the Central
Government in accordance with the orders issued
by that Government from time to time.

(2)... Group ‘B’ post means any post which having
regard to its scale of pay and emoluments would,
if such post had been in the Central Government,

“be classified as a Group ‘B’ post under the Central
Government i in accordance with the orders issued
. by that Government from time to time.

@) . Group ‘G4 post.means any. post which having
regard to its scale of pay and emoluments would,
if such post had been in the Central Government,
be classified as a Group ‘C’ post under the Central
Government in accordance with the orders issued
by that Government from time to time.

(4) Group ‘D’ post means any post which having
regard to its scale of pay and emoluments would,
if such post had been in the Central Government,
be classified asa Group ‘D’ post under the Central
Government in accordance with the orders issued
by that Government from time to time.

7. Appointments to Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’ post of
Fire Service—The Government shall make appointments

_to any Group ‘A’ or Group ‘B’ posts within the meaning of
_Sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of Section. 6
_ Fespectively, only after consultation with the Union Public

Service Commission.

8. Appointment af Director of Fire Service. —(1) For
the directions and supervision of the Fire Service in Dethi,
the Government shall appoint a Fire Officer to be the
Director who shall exercise such powers and perform such
duties and other functions as are specified by or under this
Act.

(2) Subject to the rules made in this regard by the
Government, the Director may appoint subordinate staff of
Group ‘C’ level including operational members of this
category only on the recommendations of the Delhi
Subordinate Services Selection Board on monthly salaries
and such allowances as may be fixed by the Government.

(3) Subject to rules made in this regard by the
Government, the Director may appoint Group ‘D’ staff

including operational members of this category on monthly
salaries and such allowances as may be fixed by the
Government.

9, Constitution of fire divisions, sub-divisions and
fire stations.—The Government may—

(a) constitute fire zones and fire divisions within the
National Capital Territory of Delhi;

(b) divide such fire Zones into fire divisions, and fire
divisions into fire sub-divisioris, and specify the
fire divisions, fire sub-divisions and fire stations
in each fire zone, fire division and fire sub-division
respectively; and.

(c) define the limits and extent of such fire zones, fire
divisions, fire sub-divisions and fire stations as
may be necessary for administrative and
operational efficiency.

10. Certificate of appointment.— (1) Every fire officer
of the rank of sub-officer and below shall, on enrolment
receive a certificate of appointment. ;

(2) The certificate shall be issued under the seal of
such officer and shall be in such form as the Government
may, by general or special order, prescribe. ;

(3) A certificate of appointment shall become null
and void when the person named therin ceases to belong
to the Fire Service or shall remain inoperative during the

‘period such person is suspended from the Fire Service.

(4) The members of the Fire Service shall be governed
by such rules as are applicable to Government servants in
relation to the terms and conditions of their service and all
other allied matters.

11. Effect of suspension of fire officer —The powers,
functions and privileges vested in a fire officer shall remain
suspended while such fire officer is under suspensioin
from office :

Provided that notwithstanding such suspension,
such person shall not cease to be a fire officer and shall
continue to be subject to the conro! of same authorities to
which he would have been if he had not been under
suspension.

12. General powers of the Director.—The Director
shall subject to the superintendence and control of the
Government, direct and regulate all matters of fire fighting
equipment, machinery and appliances, training, observation
of persons and events mutual relations, distribution of
duties, study of laws, orders and modes of proceedings
and all matters of executive detail or the fulfillment of duties
and maintenance of discipline of fire officers and members
of the Fire Service under him.

CHAPTER-IE
CONTROL AND DISCIPLINE OF FIRE SERVICE

13. Calling of returns, reports, statements, etc.—
The Government may call for such returns, reports and
statements on any subject connected with fire prevention

20 DELHI GAZETTE : EXTRAORDINARY

We

[Part [V

and fire safety, the maintenance of order and the
‘ performance of duties by the Director, fire officers,
operational members, inembers and subordinate operational
staff, and the same shall be immediately furnished.

14. Certain Central Rules to apply to employees of
Fire Service.—The provisions of the Central Civil SerVices
(Conduct) Rules, 1964 and of the Central Civil Services
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 and the
Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 as amended
by the Central Government, from time to time, shall be
extended mutatis mutandis to all employees of the Delhi
Fire Service including fire officers, operational members,
members and subordinate operational staff.

‘15, Fire officers deemed to be always on duty and
liable to employment in any part of Delhii—Every fire
officer shall for all purposes of this Act be deemed to be
always on duty and any fire officer or any member or crew
of fire officers allocated for duty in any part of Delhi may, if
the Director so directs, at any time, be employed on turn
out duty in any other part of Dethi for so long as the services
of thé fire Officer or any member or crew of fire officers may
be required in such other part of Delhi.

16. Extension of Fundamental Rules and
Supplementary Rules to employees of Fire Service.—The
provisions of the Fundamental Rules and Supplementary
Rules as amended by the Central Government from time to
time, shall be extended mutatis mutandis to all employees
of the Delhi Fire Service, including fire officers, operational
members, members and subordinate operational staff.

17. Declaration of Fire Service to be an essential
service to the community. 1) Without prejudice to the
provisions of any other law on the subject for the time
being in force, the Go'vernment may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, declare the Fire Service to be an essential
service to the community.

(2) A declaration made under sub-section (1) shall
remain in force for six months in the first instance, but may
be extended from time to time by a like notification.

(3) Upon a declaration being made under sub-section
-~(1) and so long as it remains in force, it shall be the duty of
every fire officer to obey an order given by any superior
officer in relation to any employment in connection with
the service specified in the declaration.

18. Penalty for violation of duty—Notwithstanding
any action which may be taken under the provisions of
this Act, any member of the Fire Service who—

(a) is found to be guilty of any violation of duty or
willful breach of any provision of this Act or any
rule or order made thereunder; or

(b) is found to be guilty of cowardice; or

(c) withdraws or abstains from the duties of his office
without permission or without having given
previous notice for fifteen days or more; or

(d) being absent on leave fails without reasonable
cause to report himself for duty on expiration of
such leave; or

(e) accepts any other employment or office or
engages himself in business in contravention of
the provision of the Cential Civil Servicés
(Conduct) Rules, 1964; shall be punishable with
imprisonment which may extehd to three months,
or with, fine which may extend to an arnount hot
exceeding three months’ pay of such member, of
with both.

19. Restrictions respecting right to fortn

association, etc.—-(1) No member of the Fire Service shall,

without the previous sanction in writing of the Government
or of the prescribed authority;

(a) be a member of; or be associated in any way
with, any union, labour union, political
association or with any class of trade union,
labour union or political association;

(b) be a member of, of be associated in any way
with any social institution, association, or
organization that is not recognized as a part of
the Fire Service or is not a purely of a social,
technical, recreational or réligious nature; of |

(c) communicate with the press or publish of cause
to be published any book, letter or other
document except where such communication
or publication is in the bonafide discharge of
his duties or is of a purely literary, artisti¢ or
scientific character. :

Explanation—(1) If any question arises as to whether
any society, institution, association, organization is of a
purely social, technical, recreational or religious nature
under clause (b) of this sub-section, the decision of the
Government thereon shall be final.

(2) No member of the Fire Service shall participate
in, or address, any meeting or take part in any demonstration
organized by any body or persons-for any political
purposes or for such other purposes as may be prescribed.

” CHAPTER-IV
LEVY OF FIRE TAX, FEE AND OTHER CHARGES

20. Levy of fire tax.—(1) The Government may levy
a fire tax on lands and buildings which are situated in any
area in which this Act is in force and on which property tax

' by whatever name called is levied by any local authority in

that area.

(2) The fire tax shall be levied in the form of a
surcharge on the property tax at such rate in terms of
percentage of such property tax as the Government may,
by notification in the Official Gazette, determine from time
to time.

21. Mode of assessment, collection, etc. of fire
tax.—(1) The authorities empowered to assess, collect and

ow baie IV} ee

joc

__DELHI GAZETTE : EXTRAORDINARY "21

C enforce payment of propety tak vndet she jaw authorizing
‘the local authority df the atea to levy such tax shall, on
behalf of the Government and subject to arly rules tiade
under this Act, assess, collect and enforce payment of the
fire tax iii the Safn€ Hianner as the property tax is asessed,

paid and callected j atid for this purpose, they may exercise |

all or arty of the poivers they have itider the law aforesaid
and the provisiotis of such law ineliding provisions relating
to retutiis, appeals, reviews, teferenves and penalties shall
apply accordingly.

(2) Suehi pbition bf the total proceeds of the fire tax
as the Governitielit indy detetittifé Slidll be deducted to
meet the cost of collection vf the fire tax.

(3) The provéeds of the fire tax collected whder this
Act reduced by the cost of collection shall be paid to the
Government in such manner and at such intervals as may
be presctibed:

22. Fee oii deploytieht of Fire Serviee beyond the
litnits of Delli:~—(1) Where inembers of the Fire Serviee
aré sent béyoiid the limits of any aréa in which this Aét is
in force, in order to extingtiish a fire i in the neighbourhood
local body or fire service aiithority shall be liable te pay
sich fee ds may be presctibed by the Govertitient fren

- timé to titne iff this behalf.

(2) .The. fee referred to in sub-section (1) shall be
payable within one month of the séivite of a notice of
demand by the Director on the Staté Govertitneiit of leéal

- boidy or fire service authority, as the case may be, and if it
is not paid within that period. It shall be recoverable ag att
arrear of land revenue.

23. Reciprocal fire-fighting arrangements with
other fire service-—The Director may, with the previous
sanction of the Government, enter into an agreement with
any fire service or the authority which maintains the said
fire service, beyorid the limits of any aréa in which this Act
is in force for providing personnel of éqiuptient of both,
for fire fighting purposes, 04 Such tetis as may be provided
by or under the agreement on reciprocal basis in public
interest.

24., Powers of the Director to enter Into
arraiigements for assistance.~—The Director thay, with the
previous sanction of the Government, enter inte
arrangements with any person or organization who employs
and maintains personnel or equipment or both, for fire
fighting purposes, to secure, on such terms as to payment
or otherwise as may be provided by or under the
arrangements, the provision by that person or organization
for assistance for the purpose of dealing with fire occurring
in any area in which this Act is in force.

. . CHAPTER-V
GENERAL MEASURES FOR FIRE PREVENTION
AND SELF REGULATION

25. Preventive measures.—(1) The Government
may, by notification in-the Official Gazette, declare any

F380 D(alO7 a)

roy
class.of occupancy and pandals which, in its‘opinion-is
likely to cause-a risk of fire.

(2) The Government may, by notification in the
Offieisl Gazette, require owner or occupiers, or both, of
premises or buildings or erectors of pandals notified under
sub-section (1), to take such fire prevention and fire safety
measures as may be presctibed. ;

26. Fire prevention and fire Safety measures in the
pandals to be self regulatory.—(1) Notwithstanding
ariything contained in this Act, the erectors of pandals
shall be deeméd to be self regulators for taking fire
prevention and fire safety measures prescribed under sub-
section (2) of Section 25.

(2) The erector of a pandal shall display at a
protitinent place in the pandal a declaration in the prescribed
form and under his own signature to the effect that he has
taken all the prescribed fire prevention and fire safety
measures therein.

(3) It shall be lawful for the Director, nominated
authiority or any other officer authorized by the Government
in this behalf'to enter and inspect the pandal with a view to,
verify the correctness of the declaration so made by the
erector under sub-section (2) and to point out the
shortcomings, ifany, with directions to remove them within
4 spécified time. Ifthe directions of the inspecting officer
are not céfiplied with within the time so given, the
inspecting officer shall seal the pandal.

(4) Any erector-of a pandal who falsely declares
that he has complied with the prescribed fire prevention
and fire safety measures in the pandal shall be deemed to —
have committed an offence punishable under Section 52 of
this Act.

27, Removal of encroachments or objects or goods
likely to cause a risk of fire or any obstruction to fire
fighting —{1) Where a notification has been issued under
Section 25, it shall be lawfull for the Director or any officer
of the Fire Service authorized by the Government in this -
behalf to direct the removal of encrocahments or objects or
goods likely to cause a risk of fire or any obstruction to fire’
fighting, to a place.of safety, and on failure of the owner,
Occupier or erector, as the case may be, to do so, the
Director or such officer may, after giving the owner or
occupier or erector, as the case may be, a reasonable
opportunity of making representation, report the matter to
the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, in whose territorial
Jurisdiction the premises or building or pandal is situated,
requesting to adjudicate the matter :

Provided that where the Director considers such .

encroachments or objects or goods to be an imminent

cause of risk of fire or obstruction to fire fighting, he .

may direct the owner or the occupier or erector of

such premises or building to remove the

encroachments or objects or goods forthwith and

report the matter to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate
_ accordingly.

Ye

22 DELHI GAZETTE ; EXTRAORDINARY [Parr IV !

(2) On receipt of areport under sub-section (1), the |

Sub-Divisional Magistrate shall give, by means of a notice
served in.such marmner as he may think fit, a reasonable
opportunity of showing cause agairist the removal of
encroachment or objects or goods likely to cause a risk of
fire or obstruction to fire fighting. .

(3) After giving the owner or occupier or erector, as
the! case may be, a reasonable opportunity. of making
representation under sub-section (2), the Sub-Divisional
Magistrate may malce an order to seize, detain or remove
such encroachments or objects or goods.

(4) The person charged with the execution of the
order as made in sub-section (3) shall forthwith make an
inventory of the objects‘and-goods which he seizes.under
such order, and shall, at the same time, give a written notice
as may be prescribed in this behalf, to the person in
possession thereof at the time of seizure, that the said
objects or goods. will be sold as therein mentioned if the
same are not claimed within the period stipulated. in the
said notice.

~ (8) On the failure of the person in whose possession
the objects or goods were at the time of seizure to claim the

seized goods pursuant to notice given under sub-section -

(4), the Sub-Divisional Magistrate shall sell them
accordingly by public ‘auction.

(6) Any person aggrieved by any notice or order of
the Sub-Divisional Magistrate may, within thirty days from
the date of such order, prefer an appeal to the Appellate
Authority.

Provided that the Appellate Authority may entertain
an appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days
if he is satisfied that there was sufficient catise for no filing
it within that period.

(7) An appeal to the Appellate Authority shall be
made in such form and shall be accompanied by a copy of
the notice or order appealed against-and by such fees as
may be prescribed:

(8) An order of the Appellate Authority on an an appeal.

under sub-section (7) shall be final.

28. Powers of members of the Fire Service on
occasion of fire and/or rescue.—On the occasion of fire
rescue in any areain which this Act is in force, any member
ofthe Fire Service who is in charge of fire fighting operations
on the spot may—

(a) remove, or order any other member of the Fire
Service to remove, any person who by his
presence interferes with or impedes the
operation for extinguishing the fire or for
saving life or property;

(6) close any street or passage in or. near which a
fire is being fought and/or rescue work is in
progress;

“ (©) for the purpose of estinguishing fire and
‘carrying out rescue operation, break into or
through or pull down, any premises for the
passage of hose or appliances or cause them
to be broken into or through or_pulled down,
doing as little damage as possible;

(d) require the authority in charge of water supply
in the area to regulate the water mains so as to
provide water at a specified pressure at the
place where fire has broken out and utilize
the water ofany stream, cistern, well or tank or
of any available source of water, public or
private, for the purpose of extinghuishing or
limiting the spread of such fire and carrying
out rescue operations;

(ec) exercise the same powers for dispersing an
assembly of persons likely to obstruct the fire
fighting operations as it were an officer-in-
charge of a police station and ‘as if such an
assembly were an unlawful assembly and shall
be entitled to the same immunities and
protection as such officer, in respect of the
exercise of such powers;

(f)- arrest a person. who willfully obstructs and
hinders a fire service personnel in fire fighting
and rescue operations and shall hand him over
toa police officer or at the nearest police
station without,avoidable delay along with a
brief note giving the fime, date and reasons of
arrest; and

_ ) generally take such measures as may appear
; to him to be necessary for extinghuishing the
fire or for the protection of life or property, or _
both.

29. Appointment of fire safety officer —Every owner
and occupier or an association of such owners and
occupiers of the following classes of buildings or premises
shall appoint .a fire-safety officer who shall ensure the
compliance of all fire prevention and fire safety measures
and effective operation thereof as provided in this Act
and the rules made thereunder, namely -—

(a) cinema houses with seating capacity of more
than 1000 persons and having commercial
complex with built-up area more than 10000
sq. mtr. and building having multiple cinema
with seating capacity, taken together, of 1000
persons, or more, whether, having commercial
complexes or not;

(b) hotels with 100 rooms and above;

(c) ‘underground shopping complexes, district
centres, sub-central business districts,
including the basement with build up area of
more than 25000 sq. mtr.;

a}e-
DELHI GAZETTE : EXTRAORDINARY 23

iow Parr [V}
a

(| multistoreyed non-residential buildings above
50 meters in height,

(e)| large oil and-natural gas installations such as
refineries, LPG bottling plants and similar other
facilities;

(f)' open stadia with seating capacity more than

50,000 persons and indoor stadia with seating

capacity more than 25,000 persons,

(g) hospitals and nursing homes with more than
500 beds;

th) public.and semi-public buildings ‘like large
surface and sub-surface railway stations,
interstate-bus terminuses, airports amusement
parks and other similar buildings :
Provided that the Government may, by
notification in the official Gazette, fromitimeto
time, include any other premises which, in‘its
opinion, require appointment of fire safety

” officers.

_.__.30, Fire safety officers to undergo training —The
fire safety officers shall undergo training at the Fire Safety
management Academy as may be specified by the
Government in this behalf:
Provided that a person who has already undergone
such ‘raining at the National Fire Service Collage,
Nagpur or at any other equivalent institution
recognized by the Government, shall not be required
to undergo such a training.

31-Penalty in case of default of non-appointment of
fire Safety officer—(1) If any owner or .occupier:or an
association of such owners and occupiers of a building or
premises fails to appoint under section 29, fire safety. officer
within thirty days, of the receipt of a notice given in this
behalf by the Director or the nominated authority,.as:the
case may be, each one of them shall be deemed to be in
_ default jointly and severally.

(2) When the person liable for appointment of such
fire safety officer is deemed to be in default, such sum not
lé8s than ten rupees per square meter and not exceeding
fifty rupees per square meter of area owned or occupied
by him including in the common areas in the premises as
determined by the Director, may be recovered from himby
way of penalty for each month of default or part thereof.

(3) The amount due as penalty under sub-section
(2) shall be recovered as an arrears of land revenue.

CHAPTER-VI
SPECIAL PROVISION FOR THE FIRE PROTECTION
AND FIRE SAFETY MEASURES IN CERTAIN
BUILDINGS AND PREMISES IN DELHI

32. Special provision for multistoried building. —
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
this Act, the multistories buildings shall be governed by
the provisions for the fire prevention and fire safety mea-
sures hereinafter stipulated.

33. Inspection of buildings, premises, etc.—(1) The
nominated authority may, after giving three hours notice
tothe occupier, or if there: be no-occupier, to the owner of
any building having such height.as may be specified by
rules framed under this Act or premises, enter and inspect
the said building or premises at any :time-between sunrise
and sunset where such inspection appears necessary for
ascertaining the adequacy or contravention of fire protec-
tion and fire safety measures :

Provided that the nominated authority may enter into
and inspect any ‘building or premises at any ‘time if it
appears to it to be expedient and nécessary to do so in
order to ensure safety of life and property.

(2) The nominated authority shall be provided with
all possible assistance ‘by the owner-.or occupier, as the
case -may be, of the building or premises for-carrying out

“the inspection under sub-section (1).

(3) When any building or premises used as a human
dwelling is entered under stib-section.(1).due regard shall
be paid to the social.and religious sentiments of the occu-
piers; and, before any-apartment in the actual occupancy
of any women who, according to the custom does not
appear in public, is entered under sub-section:(1), notice
shall-be give to her that she is at liberty to withdraw, and
every:reasonable facility shall be: afforded to.her for with-
drawing. : : ;

34, Measures for fire prevention and fire safety —
(1) The nominated authority shall, after the completion of
the inspection of the building or premises under Section
33 record its views or the deviations from or the contra-
vention of the building bye-laws with regard-to the fire
prevention and fire safety measures and the inadequacy
of such measures;provided therein with reference to the
height of the ‘building orthe nature of activities carried on -
in such building or.premises and issue a notice to the
owner or occupier.of such building or premises directing
him to undertake:such measures as may be specified in the
notice.

(2) The nominated authority shall also give a report
of.any inspection made by it under § Section 33 to the
Director. ,

35. Provision regarding certain building and pre-

Amises.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any

other law for time being in force the Director or the nomi-
nated authority may enter and inspect any building, the
construction of which was completed on or before the
commencement of this Act or any builditig which was under.
construction on.such date in such inspection appears
necessary for ascertaining the adequacy of fire preven-
tion and fire safety measures in such buildings.

(2) The entry and inspection under sub-section (1)
shall be done by the Director or the nominated authority
in the manner laid down in Section 33.

mises under sub-section (1), and after taking into eonsid-
eration.—

@ the provisions of the building bye-laws in
accordance with which the plan of this said
building or premises was sanctioned;

“the conditions imposed, if any, by the local
authority at the time of the sanction of the
plan of the said building or premises; and

| i

(ii) the minimum standards for fire prevention and _

fire safety measures specified for such build-
ing or premises as may be specified by rules
framed under this Act, issue a notice to the
owner or occupier of such building or pre-
mises stating therein the inadequacy in regard
to the fire prevention and fire safety measures
in it and direct the owner or occupier to under-
take measures for rectifying the said inad-
-equaicy-within the period as he may consider
just and reasonable.

(4) The nominated authority shall also give a report
ofany inspection made by it under sub-section (1) to the
Director.

36. Appeals.—{1) Any person aggrieved by any
notice or order of the nominated authority or the Director
issued or made under this chapter may prefer an appeal
against such notice or order tothe Appellate Authority

within thirty days from the date of the notice or order .

appealed against :

Provided that the Appellate Authority may enter-
tain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty
days if he is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for
not filing it within that period.

(2) An appeal to the Appellate Authority shall be
made in such form and shall be accompanied by a copy
of the notice or order appealed against and by such fees
as a may be specified by rule framed under this Act.

(3) An order of the Appellate Authority on an ap-
peal under sub-section (1) shall be final.

37. Penalties for violation of provisions of Chapter
VI.—Whoever contravenes any provision of this
Chapter shall, without prejudice to any other action taken
against him under this Act and rules made there under,
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
fifty thousand rupees, or with both and where the
offence is a continuing one with a further fine which may
extend to three thousand rupees for every day after the
first during which such offence continues.

Ve
24° DELHI GAZETTE : EXTRAORDINARY [Parr TY
. 3) The Director or the nominated authority, asthe ” - CHAPTER-ViI
case may be, shall, after inspection of the building or pre- MISCELLANEOUS

38, Establishment of fire training institute—(1)
The Government may establish and maintain a fire train-
ing institute in Delhi io be known as the “Fire Safety Man-
agement Academy” far providing courses of instryction in
the prevention and estinguishment of fire for the Fire
Service personnel and private candidates fram industries,
hotels, multi-storied buildings and similar ethers gevern-
ment and non-government establishments as specified in
section 29.

(2) The Government may extend the training facili-
ties at the academy to be established under sub-section

_(1) to the fire services under the control of local badies

and industrial undertakings as well as te the state fire ser-
vices of other States on payment of gharges as may be
prescribed.

(3) Subject to the observance of the general rules
applicable to other employees of the Government in rela-
tion to training, the members ofthe Fire Service may be
given training in the field of scientific and modem tech-
niques of fire protection and fire safety measures, and
allied matters in any institute, within or out of Indja at the
cost and expense of the Government for the administra-
tion of the provisions of this Act.

(4) A fire officer who undergoes training as pro-
yided in sub-section (3), shall indemnify the Government
to reimburse all such expenses and costs, including the
pay and allowances as may be paid to him during tlie
course of training, ifhe does not serve the Fire Service for
a stipulated tenure binding on him in this behalf.

39, Transfer to other area.—The Director or any

.fire officer authorized by the Government in this behalf

may, onthe occasion of a fire or other emergency in any
neighbouring area in which this Act is not in force, order
the dispatch of the members ofthe Fire Service with nec-
essary appliances and equipment to carry out fire fighting
operations in such neighbouring area and thereupon all
the provisions of this Act and the rules made there under
shall apply to such areas, during the periad of fire emer-
gency or during such period as the Director may specify
on such’ charges as may be prescribed from time to time.

40. Employment on other duties.—1It shall be lawful
for the Government or any officer authorized by it in this
behalf, to employ the Fire Service in any rescue, salvage or
other works for which it is suitable by reason of its train-
ing, appliances and equipment.

41. Liability of property owner to pay compensa-
tion.—{1) Any person whose property catches fire on ac-
count of an action of his own or of his agent done deliber-

‘ately or negligent shall be liable to_pay compensation to

any other person suffering damage to his property en
account of any action taken under Section 28 of this Act

Part IV]

oie

DELHI GAZETTE : EXTRAORDINARY ‘ ; 25

by an officer mentioned therein or any person acting
under the authority of such officer. -

| (2) Allclaims under sub-section (1) shall be preferred
to the Appellate Authority, within thirty days from the
date when the damage was caused,

| (3) The Appellate Authority, shall, after giving the
party an opportunity of being heard, determine the amount
of compensation due and pass an order stating such
amount and the person liable for the same, and the. order
so passed shall have the force of a decree of a civil court.

' 42. Power to obtain information.—The Director or
any fire officer, authorized by general or special order in
this behalf may, for the purpose of discharging his “duties
under this Act, require the owner or occupier of any. build-
ing or other property as may be specified to supply infor-
mation with respect to the character of such building or
other property as may be specified, the available water
supplies and means of access thereto any other material
particulars, and spch owner or occupier shall furnish all
~ "the information in his possession.

43. Power of entry.—{1) The nominated authority
may enter any of the places specified in any notification
issued under sub-section (1) of Section 25 for the purpose
of determining whether preventive and safety measures
against fire required to be taken on such place have been
so taken.

(2) The nominated authority shall, after the comple-
tion of the inspection of the building or premises under
sub-section (1) record its views on the deviations from or
the contravention of, the notification issued under sub-
section (2) of Section 25 with regard to the fire prevention
and fire safety measures and the inadequacy of such

-measures provided therein with reference to the occu-

- pancy of the building or the nature of activities carried on
in such building or premises and issue a notice to the
owner or occupier or such building or premises directing
him to.undertake such measures as may be specified in
the notice.

(3) The nominated authority shall also give a report
of any inspection made by it under sub-section (1) to the
Director. :

(4) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this
Act, no claim shall lie against any person for compensa-
tion for any damage necessarily caused by any entry
made under sub-section (1).

44. Power to seal buildings or premises—(1) Where,
on receipt ofa report from the nominated authority under
sub-section (2) of Section 34 or sub-section (4) of Section
35 or sub-section (3) of Section 43, or suo-moto, it appears
to the Director that the condition of any building or pre-
mises is dangerous tc life or property, he shall, without
prejudice to any action taken under this Act, by order,
require the person in possession or occupation of such

rT

building or premises to remove themselves from such build-
ing or premises forthwith.

(2) If an order made by the Director under sub-sec-
tion (1) is not complied with , the Director may direct any
police officer having jurisdiction in the area to remove
such persons from the building or premises and such
officer shall comply with such directions.

(3) After the removal of the persons under
sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), as the case may be, the
Director shall seal the building or premises.

(4) No person shall remove such seal except under
an order made by the Director.

(5) Any person who removes such seal except
under an order made by the Director, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
months, or with fine which may extend to twenty five
thousand rupees, or with both.

43. Compensation of water.—No charge shall be
made be any local authority for water consumed in fire
fighting operations by the Fire Service.

46. No compensation for interruption of water
supply.—No authority in charge of water supply in any
area shall be liable to any claim for compensation for
damage by reason of any interruption of supply of water
occasioned only by compliance of such authority with the
requirement specified in clause (d) of section 28.

47. Police officers and others to aid.—Every police
officer, government and private agency or person is bound
to assist the members of the Fire Service reasonably
demanding his or its aid in the execution of their duties
under this Act.

48. Failure to give information.—Any person who
without just cause fails.to. communicate information in his
possession regarding an outbreak of fire shall be deemed
to have committed an offence punishable under the first
part of Section 176 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of
1860).

49. Failure to take precautions.— Whoever fails with-
out reasonable cause to comply with any of the require-
ments specified in‘a notification issued under sub-section
(1) of Section 25 orofa direction issued under sub-section
(2) of that section shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees or with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to three months, or with both and
where the offence is a continuing one with a further fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees for every day
after the first during which such offence continues.

50, Penalty for willfully obstructing the fire fight-
ing, rescue operations.—Any person who willfully

‘obstructs or interferes with any member of the Fire Service

who is engaged in fire fighting operations, shall be punish-
able with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
three months, or with fine which may extend to five
thousand rupees, or with both.

j | . A. a ear saree Tae

r~ 26 DELHI GAZETTE : EXTRAORDINARY [Parr iV GY

51, False report —-Any person who knowingly gives
or causes to be given’a false report of the outbreak of fire
to any person authorised to receive such report by
means of|a statement, message or otherwise shall be,
punishable with imprisonrnent which may extend to three
months-or with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees, or: with both.

52. General provision for punishment for offence.—
Whoever contravenes any provision of this Act or of any
rule or notification made thereunder shall, without’ preju-
dice to any other action taken against him under this Act
and the rules made thereunder, be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend tc three months,
or with fine which may. extend to ten thousand rupees or
with both and where the offence is a continuing one with
a further fine which may extend to five hundred rupees
for every day after the first during which such offence
continues.

53. Fire Service functioning in Delhi immediately
before the commenceméiit of this Act to be deemed to be
Fire Service Constituted under this Act— Without pre-
judice to the provisions contained in any other law for the
time being in force.

(a) the fire service functioning in Delhi before the:
commencement of this Act (hereafter in this section

referred to as “the existing Delhi Fire Service”) shall,

on such commencement, be deemed to be the Fire

Service constituted under this Act and every member

of the existing Delhi. Fire Service holding the office,

shall be deemed to be appointed and to hold the

office, under this Act;

(b) all proceedings pending before any fire officer of,
the existing Delhi Fire Service, immediately before
the commencement of this Act be deemed to be
. proceedings pending before him in his capacity as
the holder of the office to which he is deemed to be
appointed under clause (a) and shall be dealt with

_. accordingly. :

” 4. Compounding of offences.—(1) Any offence
whether committed before or after the commencement of
this Act punishable under sections 26, 27, 31, 37, 44, 48, 49,
50, 51 and 52 or any rule made under this Act, may either
before or after the institution of prosecution, be
compounded by such officers of the Fire Service and for
such amount as the Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf:

Provided that no offence shall be compoundable
which is committed by failure to comply witha notice, order
or requisition issued by or on behalf of the Government or
of any of the officers authorized under this Act and until
the same has been complied with so far as the compliance
is possible.

(2) Where an offence has been compounded under
sub-section (1), the offender if in custody, shall be

7

discharged and no further proceedings shafl be taken
against him in respect of such. offence.

55, Bar of jurisdiction of Court.—No court shall
entertain any suit, application or other proceedings in
respect of any notice or order under this Act and no such
notice or order shall be called in question otherwise than
by preferring an appeal under this Act.

56. Cognizance of prasecution.—No court shall
proceed to the trial ofan offence under this Act, except on
the complaint of, or upon information received from, the
Director or the officer authorized by him in this behalf.

§7. Jurisdiction.-No court inferior to that of a
Metropolitan Magistrate shall try an offence punishable
under this Act. :

58. Protection of action taken in good faith—No suit,
prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any
person for anything which is in good faith done or intended
to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rules made there
under.

59. Special promotion to the subordinate opertaional
staff.—To encourage outstanding sportsmen, marks men,’
officers who have shown exceptional gallantry and
devotion to duty in saving the life and property, the Director
may, with the prior approval of the Government, promote
such officers out of turn to the next higher rank provided
vacancies exists. Such promotions shall not exceed ten
percent of the sanctioned strength in such ranks. For
purposes of seniority-such promotees shall be placed at
the bottom of the promotion list drawn up for that year.

60. Death of member of Fire Service.—In the event
of a member of the Fire Service (other than a gazetted
officer), dying while on active duty, the Government shall
pay, subject to the maximum limit of five thousand rupees
to the next of kin as funeral expenses.

61: Officers to be public servants.—- Every officer
acting under the provisions of this Act shall be deemed to -
be a public servant within the meaning of Section 21 ofthe
Indian Penal Code, 1860 (45 of 1860). ,

62. Offences by companies.—(1) Where an offence
under this Act has, been committed by a company, every
person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in
chatge of, and was responsible to the company for the
conduct of the business of the company as well as the
company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly :

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section
shall render any suth person liable to any punishment if
he proves that the offence was committed without his
knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.

(2) Notwithstanding . anything contained in sub-
section (1) where any offence under this Act has been

Life

committed by a company and it is proved that the offence
has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or
is attributable to any ‘neglect on the part, of any director,
manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such
director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be
deemed be guilty of that offence and shall be liable fo be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.
Explanation —For the purposes of this section,

(a) “company” means a body corporate and

: includes a firm or other association of

individuals; and
(b) “director”, in relation to a firm, means a partner

S, in the firm.
63. Power to make rules.— The Government may by
notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying
out the provisions of this Act.

generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide
for—

™ (a) ... recruitment to, and the pay, allowances and all
other conditions of service of the members of
the Delhi Fire Service under clause (b) of
Section 5;
“~ (b) constitution of fire division comprising such
numbers of fire sub-divisions under clause (a)
of Section 9;
“ "“\ (©) constitution of fire sub-divisions comprising
such numbers of fire stations under clause (b)
: of Section 9;
~~ (d) form of certificate of appointment and fire
officer under whose seal such certificate of
appointment shall be issued under sub-section
(2) of Section 10;

(e) purposes of meetings or demonstrations under
sub-section (2) of Section 19;
“™ (@) mode of assessment, collection and
enforcement. of payment of fire tax levied under
Section 21;
(g) manner in which fire tax collected under
Section, 21 shall be paid to Government;
~.(h) fee on deployment of Fire Service beyond the
limits of Delhi under sub-section (1) of Section
22 and under Section, 39;
~~) terms for reciprocal firefighting arrangements
with other fire services under Section 23;
~*~ (j) the minimum standards for fire prevention and
| fire safety measures for the purposes of sub-

section (2) of Sectioh 25, Section 32 and-clause
(iii) of sub-section (3) of Section 35,
... () form of declaration under sub-section (2) of
a Section 26;

@ form of notice under sub-section (4) of
Section 27;

E (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the

i Parr DELHI GAZETTE ; EXTRAORDINARY 27

“(m) the height of the building under sub-section
~ (D of Section 33;

(n) form of appeal and fees under sub-section (7)
of Section 27 and sub-section (2) of
Section 36;

“(o) charges for extending training facilities at Fire
Safety Management Academy to others under
sub section (2) of Section 38 ;

‘~(p} officers ofthe Fire Service, and the amount for

compounding of offenses under sub-section
(1) of Section 54;

+» (q@ making available to the Fire Service with such,

appliances and equipment as it deems proper;

0) the adequate supply of water to securing that
it shall be available for use;

“,(s) constructing or providing fire stations or hiring
places for accommodating the members of the
Fire Service and its fire fighting appliances;

oy (t) giving rewards to persons who have given
notice of fires and to those who have rendered
effective service to the Fire Service on the
occasion of fires;

(u) _ the training, discipline and good conduct of
‘\\ the members of the Fire Service;

(v) speedy attendance of members of the Fire
Service with necessary appliances and
equipment on the occasion of any alarm of
fire;

(w) _ regulating and confrolling the powers, duties

~_ and functions of the Director;

(x) generally, for the maintenance of the Fire
Service in a due state of efficiency;

(vy) regulating installation of pandals and
shamianas;

(2) _ writing of confidential reports fire officers;

(za) determining the description and quantity of
fire fighting and rescue equipment including
appliances clothing and other necessaries to
be furnished to the Fire Service;

(z) institution, management and regulation of any
fire service fund for any purpose connected
with policy administration;

(zc) assigning duties to fire officers of all ranks
and grades, and prescribing the manner in
which and the conditions subject to which,
they shall exercise and perform their respective
powers and duties;

(zd) generally, for the purposes of rendering the
Fire Service efficient and preventing abuse or
neglect of their duties; and

(ze) any other matter which is required to be, or
may be, provided by rules.

DELHI GAZETTE : EXTRAORDINARY _

[Part-IV

G3) Every rule made by the Government under this
Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made before
the House'of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi while it is
in session for a total period of thirty days which may be

comprised] in one session or in two or more successive®

sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately
following ¢ the session or the: successive sessions aforesaid,

the House of the Legislative Assembly agrees in making
any modifications in the rule or the House of the Legislative
Assembly agrees that the rule should not be made, the rule
shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or
be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any
such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice
to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.

64, Delegation of powers.— (1) The Government may
by notification in the Official Gazette direct that any power
exercisable by it under this Act shall, subject to such
conditions, if any, as may be specified in the notification
be exercisable by any of the officers of the Government.

Q) The Director may, by order, direct that any power
conferred or any duty imposed on him by or under this Act
shall, in such circumstances and under such conditions, if
any, as may be specified in. the order, be exercised and,
performed also by any officer of the Fire Service specified
in the order.

65. Repeal and Savings. As from the date of the
commencement of this Act—-

(a) the United Provinces Fire Service Act, 1944 (U.P.
Act No. 3 of 1944) as extended to Delhi shall stand repealed;

(b) the Delhi Fire Prevention and Fire Safety Act,
1986 (56 of 1986) shall stand repealed;

»

-(c) the Delhi Fire Service (Subordinate Services)
Rules, 1945 framed under clause (b) of sub-section (1) and
clause (b) of sub-settion (2) uf Section 241 of the
Government of India Act, 1935 shall stand repealed:

’ Provided that such repeal shail hot be deemed to
limit, modify of derogate froin the general responsibility of
any local authority—

(a) to provide and maintain such water supply and
fire hydrants for fire fighting purposes as may be directed
by the Government from time to time;

(b) to frame bye-laws for the regulation of dangerbtis
trades;

(c) to order any of its employees to render aid in
fighting a fire when reasonably called to do so by any
member of the Fire Service; and

(d) generally to take such measiires as will lesser thé
likelihood of fires or preventing the spread of fires.

66. Power to Remove Difficulties.—{1) If any
difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this
Act, the Government may, by otder published in the Official
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act as may appear to it to be necessary
or expedient for removing the difficulty :

Provided that no such order shall be made after the
expiry of two years from the commencement of this Act.

. (2) Every order made under this Section shall be laid,
as soon as may be after it is issued, before the Legislative
Assembly of Delhi.”

SAVITA.RAO, Jt. Secy.

Printed by the Manager, Govt. of India Press; Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.

