THE DELHI PRESERVATION OF TREES ACT, 1994
(DELHI ACT NO. 11 OF 1994)
(12-10-1994)
(As passed by the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi)
AN
ACT
To provide for the preservation of trees in the National Capital Territory of Delhi
BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi in the
Forty-fifth Year of the republic of India as follows:CHAPTER 1
Preliminary
1. Short title , extent and commencement 1. This ct may be called the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act,
1994
2. It shall extend to the whole of the National Capital Territory
of Delhi.
3. It shall come into force at once.
2. Definition. ----In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,----1. "Appellate Authority" means an authority appointed by the
Government as appellate authority under this Act;
2. "Deputy Conservator of Forests a forest officer in-charge of a
forest and exercising jurisdiction over area;
3. "Secretary means the Secretary of Forests, Government of
the National Capital Territory of Delhi;
4. "Forest produce includes:a. the following whether found in, or
brought from ,forest or not, that is to
say:Timber, charcoal, caoutchoue, catechu,
wood-oil, resin, natural varnish, bark,
lac, mahua flowers, mahua seeds, kuth
and myrabolams, and
b. the following when found in, or brought
from, a forest, that is to say:i. trees and leaves ,
flowers and fruits,
and all other parts
of produce not
herein
before
mentioned, of trees,
ii. Plants not being trees
(including
grass,
creepers, reeds and
moss), and all parts

or produce of such
plants,
iii. Wild animals and
skins, tusks, horns,
bones,
silk,
cocoons, honey and
wax, and all other
parts or produce of
animals , and
iv. Peat, surface, soil, rock
and
minerals(including
limestone, late rite,
mineral oils, and oil
products of mines
or quarries);
5. "Government" means the Government of the National
Capital Territory of Delhi;
6. "notification" means a notification published in the official
Gazette;
7. "organization" means any company(public or private);
government or semi-government department; undertaking;
board or local authority;
8. "to fell a tree" with its cognate expression, means serving the
trunk from the roots, uprooting the tree and includes
bulldozing, cutting, girdling, lopping, pollarding, applying
arboricides, burning or damaging a tree in any other manner,
9. "tree" means any woody plant whose branches spring from
and are supported upon a trunk or body is not less than five
centimeters in diameter at a height of thirty centimeters from
the ground level and is not less than one metre in height from
the ground level;
10. "Tree Officer" means a forest officer appointed as such by
the Government for the purposes of this Act:
11. "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act:
12. words and expressions used in this Act and defined in the
Indian Forest Act, 1927 (Central Act 16 of 1927) but not
defined this Act, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in that Act.
CHAPTER II
Tree Authority
3. Establishment of the Tree Authority:1. The Government shall, by notification constitute a Tree
Authority for the whole of the National Capital Territory of
Delhi.
2. The Tree Authority shall consist of the following members,
namely:i.
Secretary of Forests or any other officer
not below the rank of Secretary to the
Government
nominated
by
the
Government ___Chairman

ii.

Deputy
Commissioner,
Delhi_____Member
iii.
Two Members of the Legislative
Assembly
nominated
by
the
Government. _______Members
iv.
Two Representatives of the local bodies
nominated
by
Government.
_______Members
v.
Deputy
Conservator
of
Forests.
___Member Secretary
3. The Tree Authority may co-opt as members in such manner
and for such period as it may determine not more than five
representatives of non-official organizations and Government
Departments having special knowledge or practical
experience in the preservation of trees.
4. Meeting of the Tree authority:1. The Tree Authority shall meet at least
once in three months at such place and
time as the Chairman may decide.
2. The quorum to constitute a meeting of
the Tree Authority shall be three
members referred to in sub-section (2)
of section 3.
3. No co-opted member shall have the right
to vote at a meeting.
4. In the case of an equality of votes on
any matter, the Chairman shall have a
second or casting vote.
CHAPTER III
Officers and Servants
5. Appointment of the Tree Officer
The Government may appoint on eor more Forest Officers of the rank
not below that of a Deputy Conservator of Forests, as Tree Officers for
the purposes of this Act.
6. Appointment of other Officers
The Government may, from time to time, appoint such other officers
and servants as may be considered necessary who shall be subordinate
to the Tree Officer.
CHAPTER IV
Duties of Tree Authority
7. Duties of Tree Authority----Notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law for the time being in force. The Tree Authority shall, subject to
any general or special order of the Government, be responsible for: a. the preservation of all trees within its jurisdiction:

b. carrying out census of the existing trees and
obtaining,
whenever
considered
necessary,
declarations from all owners or occupants about the
number of trees in their lands;
c. development and maintenance of nurseries, supply
od seeds, saplings and trees to persons who are
required to plant new trees or to replace trees which
have been felled;
d. getting planting and transplanting of trees
necessitated by construction of buildings. New roads
or widening of existing roads or replacement of trees
which have failed to come up along roads or for
safeguarding danger to life and property;
e. organization of demonstrations and extension
services for the purposes of this Act and assisting
private and public institutions connected with
planting and preservation of trees;
f. undertaking such schemes or measures as may be
directed from time to time by the Government for
achieving the objects of this Act;
g. undertaking critical study of the proposals of various
government departments and private bodies for
construction of buildings, roads, factories, irrigation
works laying out of, electric telephone. telegraph and
other, transmission lines with regard to protection of
existing trees and planting of more trees, wherever
possible.
CHAPTER V
Restrictions on felling and removal of trees and liabilities for preservation of trees
8. Restrictions on felling and removal of trees______ Notwithstanding anything
contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any custom or usage
or contract and except as provide in this Act or the rules made there under, no
person shall fell or remove or dispose of any tree or forest produce in any land,
whether in this ownership or permission of the Tree Officer.
Provided that if the tree is not immediately felled. There would be grave
danger to life or property or traffic, the owner of the land may take
immediate action to fell such tree and report the fact to the Tree Officer
within twenty-four hours of such felling.
9. Prodedure for obtaining permission to fell, cut, remove or dispose of, a tree.--1. Any person desiring to fell or remove or otherwise dispose
of, by any means, a tree, shall make an application to the
concerned Tree Officer for permission and such application
shall be accompanied by attested copies of such documents
as may be prescribed in support of ownership over the land,
the number and kind of trees to be cut their girth measure at a
height of 1.85 meters from ground level and the reasons
therefore, copy of sajra showing clearly the site and khasra
numbers of the property.

2. On receipt of the application, the Tree Officer may, after
inspecting the tree and holding such enquiry as he may deem
necessary, either grant permission in whole or in part or for
reasons to be recorded in writing, refuse permission.
Provided that such permission may not
be refused if the tree:i.
ii.

is dead, diseased or wind fallen; or
is silviculturally mature, provided it
does not occur on a steep slope; or
iii.
constitutes a danger to life or property or
iv.
constitutes obstruction to traffic ;or
v.
is substantially damaged or destroyed by
fire, lightening, rain or other natural
causes ;or
vi.
is required in rural areas to be cut with a
view to appropriating the wood or leaves
thereof or any part thereof for bonafide
use for fuel, fodder, agricultural
implements , or other domestic use.
3. The Tree Officer shall give his decision within sixty days
from the date of receipt of the application:
Provided that no permission shall be granted to any
person from the same area on more than two
occasions during the same year subject to a
maximum area of one hectare at a time.
4. If the Tree Officer fails to communicate his permission on
request within the period specified under sub-section (3), the
permission referred to in section 8 shall be deemed to have
been granted.
5. Every permission granted permission under this Act shall be
in such form and subject to such conditions, including taking
of security for ensuring regeneration of the area and
replanting of trees or otherwise, as may be prescribed.
10. Obligation to plan trees- Every person, who is granted permission under this Act
to fell or dispose of any tree, shall be bound to plant such number and kind of
trees in the area from which the tree is felled or disposed of by him under such
permission as may be directed by the Tree Officer :
Provided that the Tree Officer may, for reasons to be recorded in
writing , permit lesser number of trees to be planted or trees to be
planted in any different area or exempt any person from the obligation
to plant or tend any tree.
11. Preservation of trees1. Subject to the provisions of section 13 it shall be the duty of
the owner of the land to comply with an order made under
section 9, or a direction issued under section 10 and to plant
tress in accordance with such an order or direction and to
ensure that they grow well and are well preserved.

2. All the owners shall effectively protect all lands or trees
growing in the lands or the areas under their control and
where the Tree Officer is of the opinion that adequate
measures have not been taken to protect the tress from any
damage, he may direct the owner to take such measures as
are considered necessary to protect trees from damage. In
case of default, the Tree Officer may himself arrange such
measures and recover the expenditure thereon from the
owner in the prescribed manner.
12. Implementation of order made or direction given under sections 9 and 10 and
recovery of expenditure on failure to comply with them. 1. Every person who is under an obligation to plant trees under
an order made under section 9 or a direction given under
section 10 shall start preparatory work within thirty days of
the date of receipt of the order or directions, as the case may
be and shall plant trees is accordance with such order or
direction in the ensuing or following rainy season or within
such extended time as the Tree Officer may allow and shall
provide adequate and effective protection to the trees that
exist or are planted in the land or the area from any damage
2. In case of default by such person, the Tree Officer may cause
trees to be planted and may recover the cost of plantation
from such person in the prescribed manner.
13. Adoption of trees.--- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any
other law for the time being in force, the Tree Authority may, subject to such
terms and conditions as it may specify in that behalf, after giving notice to the
owner of the tree to show cause, if any, as to why the trees should not be given in
adoption, allow, by a written permission, anybody corporate or institution to
adopt the tree for such period as may be specified in the permission and during
such period, the said body corporate or institution shall be responsible for the
maintenance and preservation of the said tree.
14. Appeal.--1. An appeal shall lie against the order or direction of the Tree
Officer under sections 9, 10 and 11 to the Appellate
Authority within a period of thirty days of passing order or
direction by the Tree Office.
2. Every appeal under this section shall be made by a petition in
writing and shall be accompanied by a copy of the order or
direction appealed against and a fee of rupees ten.
3. In disposing of an appeal, the Appellate Authority shall
follow such procedure as may be prescribed :
Provided that no appeal shall be disposed of unless the appellate
has been given a reasonable opper tunity of being heard.

CHAPTER VI
Penalties and Procedure
15. Seizure of property.--- Where the Tree Officer has reasons to believe that an
offence under this Act has been committed in respect of any tree, he may seize the
tools, implements, any boats, vehicles, animals or other conveyances used for the

commission of the said offence, alongwith the tree or part thereof which has been
served from the ground or the trunk, as the case may be.
16. Forfeiture of timber and other procedure from the tree, implements used for
falling and the vehicle and animals used for transport of such trees.
1. Where any person is convicted of an offence under this Act,
any timber or the tree in respect of which an offence is
committed , the tools and implements used for felling and
any boats, vehicles,animals or other conveyances used for its
transport, may be ordered by the court to be forfeited to
Government.
2. Any timber produce from the tree, tools and implements, etc.
and any boats , animals or other conveyances forfeited under
sub-section (1) shall be disosed of by the Tree Officer in
such manner as may be prescribed.
17. Power to release property seized under section 15.--- The Tree Officer may
release the property seized under section 15 if the owner of the land executes a
bond in such form as may be prescribed for its production whenever required.
18. Power to arrest without warrant.-1. Any Tree Officer or a Forest Officer not below the rank of a
Forest Ranger or a Police Officer not below the rank of a
Sub-Inspector maay, without a warrant , arrest any person
reasonably suspected of having been concerned in any
offence under this Act, and such person refuses to give his
name or address or gives a name or address which thee
concerned officer has reason to believe to be false or if he
has reason to believe that the person willn abscord.
2. Any person arrested under sub-section (1) shall be informed ,
as soon as may be , of the grounds for such arrest and shall
be produced before the nearest Magistrate having jurisdiction
in the case within twenty four hours of such arrest excluding
the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to
the court of the Magistrate and no such person shall be
detained in custody beyond the said period without the
authority of the Magistrate.
19. Power to release person arrested ---- Any officer who has arrested any person
under the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 18 may release such person on
his executing a bond with proper surety to appear , if and when so required ,
before thee Magistrate having jurisdiction in the case , or before the Police or the
Forest Officer not below the rank of Deputy Conservator of Forests or thee Tree
Officer.
20. Power to prevent commission of offence .- Every Tree Officer or his subordinates
or any Forest, Revenue or the purpose of preventing the commission of any
offence under this Act.
21. Power to compound offence .1. The Government may , by notification empower a Tree
Officer or any Forest Officer not below the rank of Deputy
Conservator of Forest :
a. to compound any offence commited
under this Act on payment ofi. a sum not exceeding
rupees ten thousand
by
way
of
composition for the
offence which such
person is suspected

to have committed,
and
ii. the value of timber and
other produce ,if
any , from the tree
in respect of which
the offence has
been committed;
b. to release any property seized or liable
to confiscation, on payment of the value
thereof as estimated by such officer and
the amount determined as payable for
composition of the offence, as os
ordered by the Tree Officer or any
Forest Officer, as the case may be.
2. On the payment of such sums or such value or both, as the
case may be, to such officer, the property seized and the
offender, if in custody, shall be released and no further
proce3dding shall be taken such offender or property.
22. Contravention of Act to be reported by certain Officers.----It shall be the duty
of every forest Officers, Panchayat Secretary, Police Constable or any officer
superior to him and every officers of the Department of Agriculture, Horticulture,
Block Development and Revenue--a. To give immediate information coming his knowledge, of
any contravention of section 8 and of preparation to commit
such contravention to the Tree Officers or the Deputy
Conservator of forest;
b. To take all reasonable measures in his power to prevent such
contravention which he may know or his reason to believe
that it is about or likely to be committed.
23. Offences by organization.
0. If the person committing an offences under this Act is an
organization, the organization as well as every person in
charge of, and responsible to, the organization for the
conduct of its business at the time of the commission of the
offence shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall
be liable to be prosecuted against and punished accordingly;
Provided that nothing contained in this sub section
shall render any such person liable to any
punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that
the offence was committed without his knowledge
and that he exercised all due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence.
1. notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1).
where an offence sunder this Act has been committed by an
organization and ****** proved that the offence has been
committed ***** the consent or connivance of, or is
attributed *** to, any neglect on the part of its Head of
***** Department|office|unit, director, manager secretary,
treasures or the
24. Penalty---Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or rules
or orders made there under shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment

which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees or with both
25. Award of penalty or forfeiture of any property under this Act shall not prevent the
inflicting or any punishment to which the person affected thereby is liable under
any other law.
CHAPTER VII
Miscellaneous
26. Officers to be public servants ---- The officers exercising powers or discharging
any duties or functions under the Act shall deemed to be public servants within
the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Panel Code. (Central Act 45 of 1860).
Miscellaneous
27. Bar of Proceedings. --- No suit or proceedings shall lie against the Government
or any person empowered to exercise power or to perform duties or discharge
functions under this Act, for anything done or omitted to be done in good faith
under this Act or the rules and orders made thereunder.
28. Execution of order for payment of money.----- Any sum, including any amount
of composition of an offence, the payment of which has been directed to be made
by any person under any law for the time being in force, be recoverable from him
as an arrear of land revenue.
29. Power of the Government to exempt.----subject to such conditions, if any, as
may be imposed, the Government may, if it considers it necessary so to do in the
public interest, by notification, exempt any area or any species of trees from all or
any of the provisions of this Act.
30. Power of the Government for Preservation of Trees. --1. The Government may in the interest of general pubic, declare
by notification that any class of trees shall not be felled for
such period as its specified in that notification.
2. The management of such trees shall be regulated in the
prescribed manner.
31. Investing Trees Officers with certain powers.---1. The Government may, by notification invest the Tree
Officers and other officers Tree Officers and other officers
with all or any Central Act 2 of 1974.
a. Power to enter upon any land and to
survey, demarcate and make a map of
the same;
b. Powers of a civil court to compel the
attendance of witness and the production
of documents and material objects;
c. Power ti issue a search warrant under
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973;
d. Power to hold enquiries into offence
under the Act and in the course of such
enquiry to receive and record evidence;
e. Power to take possession of property
under the Act.
f. Power to direct release of property or
withdrawal of charges; and
g. Power to require any person to plant tree
or trees of suitable species in adequate
numbers on any land owned or occupied
by him.

32. Transit of felled material.---The provisions of sections 41 and 42 od the Indian
Forest Act, 1927 shall mutatis mutandis, apply to the transit of the felled trees
under this Act.
CENTRAL Act 16 of 1927
33. Power of the Government to give directions. ---The Government may, from
time to time give to the Trees Officers, other officers of the Tree Authority and
officers subordinate to them general or special directions regarding the discharge
of their functions and for carrying out effectively the purpose of this Act, and
such Tree Officers and other officers shall comply with the directions issued.
34. Power to make rules.
1. The Government may, after previous publication make, by
notification, in the official Gazette, rules to carry out the
purpose of this Act.
2. In particulars and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the
following matters namely: --a. Specifying attested copies of documents
to be attached with application for
obtaining permission to fell, cut, remove
or otherwise dispose of a tree and
prescribing the form in which such
permission shall be granted;------(section 9)
b. specifying the manner for recovery of
the expenditure by tree officers from
owners who default to protect trees from
damage; ------- (section 11)
c. Specifying the manner for recovery of
plantation from persons who fail to plant
trees; -------(section 12)
d. Regulating the procedure for disposal of
appeal by the Appellate Authority;------(section 14)
e. Specifying the manner of disposal of
forfeited timber, other produce from the
trees, tools and implement, etc; ------(section 16)
f. Prescribing the form of bond to be
executed by an owner in case of release
of property seized under section 15; ------(section 17)
g. Specifying the manner of regulating the
management of class of trees felling of
which for specified period is prohibited;
-------(section 30)
h. Any other matter which is to be, or may
bed, prescribed under this Act.
3. Every rule made by the Government under this Act shall be
laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before the Legislative
Assembly.
35. Provision of this Act to be in addition to any other law for the time being inforce.--Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to effect the operation of any other law and

the rules made there under and the provisions of this Act shall be in addition to
and not in derogation of the provisions of the said Act and rules made there under.

