The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
Act 8 of 1954

Keyword(s):
Charitable Purpose, Delhi Town, Estate, Gaon Sabha Area Fund, Khudkasht,
Uneconomic Holding

DISCLAIMER: This document is being furnished to you for your information by PRS
Legislative Research (PRS). The contents of this document have been obtained from sources
PRS believes to be reliable. These contents have not been independently verified, and PRS
makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy, completeness or correctness. In
some cases the Principal Act and/or Amendment Act may not be available. Principal Acts
may or may not include subsequent amendments. For authoritative text, please contact the
relevant state department concerned or refer to the latest government publication or the
gazette notification. Any person using this material should take their own professional and
legal advice before acting on any information contained in this document. PRS or any persons
connected with it do not accept any liability arising from the use of this document. PRS or any
persons connected with it shall not be in any way responsible for any loss, damage, or distress
to any person on account of any action taken or not taken on the basis of this document.

THE DELHI LANb ~ZEF'ORMS ACT, 1954.
[20th July, 1954r

An Act to provide for modification of zamindari
system so as t o create an uniform body of
peasant proprietors without intermediaries,
for the unification of the Punjab and Agra
systems of tenancy laws in force in the State
of Delhi and to make provision for other
matters connected therewith.
Be it enacted by the State Legislative Assembly as £01-

lows :-

Preliminmy

1. (I) This Act may be called the DeThi Land Reforms
Short title,
extent and Act, 1954.
commencement
(2) It extends to the whole of the Union temtory of
Delhi, but shall not apply t o -

(a) '[the areas which are or may before the first
day of November, 1956 be] included in a Municipality
,'ora Notified Area under the provisions of the Punjab
:Municipal Act, 1911, or a Cantonment under the provisions of the Cantonments Act, 1924,
(b) '[areas] included in any estate owned by the
Ceitral Government or any lwal authority, and
(c) areas held and occupied for a public purpose
or a work of public utility and declared as such by the
Chief Commissioner or acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, or any other enactment other than t h i ~
Act, relating to acquisition of land for a public purpose,

I

(3) It shall come into force at one.

1

(4) The declaration of the Chief Commissioner underclause (c) of sub-section (2) shall be conclusive evidence
that the land is held and occupied far a public purpose ar.
a work of public utility.
R@.

2. (1) The following Acts, in so far as they apply to
areas to which this Act extends, are hereby repealed(i) the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1887, as modified by
Punjab Act No. 9 of 1939,
---.-"&bs. by s. 2 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956, for tlre words ''The arzas which".
2Subs. by s. 2 tjf Oentral Act 4 of 1959, for the words "areas, controlled, notifid,

held, occupied or omed by the Delhi, improvement Trust" (w.e.f. 20-7-1954).

58

t

I

I

59

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter I-Preliminary)
(ii). the Agra Tenancy Act, 1901,
(iiij the Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure) Acl,
1950,
(iv) .the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887, in so far
as its provisions are inconsistent with this Act.
Qv)the U.P.Land Revenue Act, 1901, in so far as
its provisions are inconsistent with this Act, and

(vi) SO much of any other law or of any rule having the force of law for the time being in force as is inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.

(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or action taken in exercise of any power conferred by or under
any of the Acts aforesaid, to the extent of its being consistint
with the provisions of this Act, shall be deemed to have been
done or taken in exercise of the powers conferred by or
under this Act as if this Act was in force on the daj on
which such thing was done or action was taken.
3. In this Act, unless the Cantext otherwise requires,- Definitioas,

'[(I) "agricultural year" or "fasli year" means the year
commencing ' ~ the
n 1st day of July and ending on the 30th
day of June];
(2) all words and expressions used to denote the possessor of any right, title or interest in land, whether the same
be proprietary or otherwise, shall be deemed to includz thz
predecessors and successors in right, title or interest of such.
possessor; ,

(3) 'kharitable purpose" includes relief of the poor,.
education, medical relief or the advancement of any ather
object d general public utility, but does not include a pxpose which relates exclusively to religious teaching or
worship;
(4) "decree" has the meaning assigned to it in the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908;
' [ ( 5 ) "Delhi town" means the areas which immediately
before the' establishment of the Municipal Corporation of
Delhi were included in the limits of Delhi Municipality. Civil
Station Notified Area, West Delhi Municipality and the F c y t
Notified Area];

'[(6) "Deputy Commissioner'' inclutlss--

(ii) an Additional Collector;
,

*Subs. by s. 3 of CenZral Act, 4 of 1959.
'Subs. by s. 2(a) of Central Act, 1 of 1966 (retrospc&a&
-5-1 Belhi Adm./70

60

The DeUzi Land Reform Act, 1954
(Chapter I-Preliminary)

(iiij a Revenue Assistant empowered by the Ckuef
Commissioner by notification in the official Gazette .tl;
discharge all or any of the functions of a Deputy Commissioner under this Act; and
(iv) an Assistant Collector of the first grade or class
empowered as aforesaid;]
(7) "~conomic holding" is a hdding which is not an
w-economic holding;
(8) "estate" means the area inzluded under one entry
in any of the registers prepared and maintained under clauce
(a), (b), (c) or (d) of section 31 of the Punjab Land Revenue
Act, 1887, or sectioo 32 of the U.P. Land Revenue Act, 1901,
.and includes share in or of an estate;
(9) "gaon sabia area fund" m a n s the fund of the gacn
sabha area constituted or established under section 150 of
this Act;

(10) "gaon sabha" and "gaon panchayat" mean the
gaon sabha and the g a m panchayat established under sections 150 and 151 respectively d this Act;
(11) ''g~on sabha area" means the gaon sabha area
constituted under section 150 of this Act;
'[(lla) "holding" means(a) in respect of(i) Bhumidar or Asami; on
(ii) tenant or sub-tenant under the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1587, or the Agra Tenancy Act, 1901; or
(iii). lessee under the Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1955, a
parcel or parcels of land held under one tenure, lease,
engagemerit or grant; and
(b) in mpect of proprietors, a parcel or parcels of
land held as sir or khud-kasht"].
(12) "imprwement" means with reference to a holding(i) a dwelling house erected on the holding by t l ~
tenure-hdder for his own occupation or zny sther coa' structicns erected or set up by him on the hdding for
purposes connected with agriculture, horticulture 01"
, 'animal husbandry which includes pisciculture and poultry farming;
(li) mj work \vhich adds materially to ths value
of the holding and is cozcistent with the purposes aforesaid, which if not executeri ~ r the
l
holding, is either
executed directly for its benefit or is, after execution,
made directly beneficial to it; and subject to the foregoing provisions 0%this dause, includes(a) the construction of well, water channeIs and
other works for the supply or distribution of water for
the purposes aforesaid;
f

i~ns.by s. 3 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956.

7he Delhi Land Refcrrms Act, 1954
(Chapter I--Prelimitmy)
(b) the construction d works for the drainage of
land or for the protection of land from floods or from
erosion or other damage by water;
(c) the rezlaiming, clearing, enclosing, levelling or
terracing of land;
(d) the erection in the immediate vicinity of the
holding otherwise than on the village site, of buildings
required for the convenient or profitable use or occuGagon of the holding;
(e) the construction of tanks or other works for
the storage of water for purposes aforesaid;
(f) the planting of trees and groves on the holding;
(g) the renewal or reconstruction of any of the foregoing works or such alterations therein or additions
thereto, as are not of the nature of mere repairs :
Provided that such water channels, embankments, enclosures, temporary wells, or other works as are made by a
tenure-holder in the ordinary course of his requirements for
purLmsesaforesaid, shall not be deemed to be improvements;
'[(12A) "Khudkasht" means land (other than Sit) cultivated by a proprietor either by himself or by servants or
by hired labour,(a) at the commencement of this Act, or
(b) at any time during the period of five years immgdiately before the commencement of this Act, whether M not it was so cultivated at such commenement,
provided that it has not, at any time after having been
so cultivated, been let out to a tenant];

(la) "fal~d" except in sections 23 and 24, means land
held qr occupied for purposes connected with zgriculture,
horticulture or animal husbandry including pisciculture and
poultry farming and includes(a) buildings appurtenant thereto, '
(b) village abadis,
(c) grovelands,
(d) lands for village pasture or land covered by
viater and used f,or growiflg singharas and other produce
or laxi in the bed of a river and used for casual or
occasional cdtivaticm,
but does not includeland occupied by buildings in belts of areas adjacent
to Ddhi t o m and New h l h i town, which the Chief
Cornmissioner may by a notification in the official Gazette declare as an acquisition thereto;

'Ins, by s. 3 of Central Act 4 of 1959. (w.e.f. 20-7-1954).

61

62

I

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter I-Preliminary)
'

(14) "legal representative" has the meaning assigned
to it in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908;

(15) "New Delhi town" means the areas included in.
the limits of the New Delhi Municipality and Delhi Cantonment;
(16) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under
this Act;
t

1~

(17) "proprietor" means as respects an estate a person
#wing, whether in trust or for his own benefit the estate and
includes the heirs and successors-in-interest of a proprietor;
(18) "proprietor's grove" means grove-land held or occupied by a proprietor as such; ,
(19) "religious purpose7' includes a purpose cmeetcd
with religious worship, teaching or service or with the wr.
formanca of religious rites;
'[(19A) "Revenue Assistant" includes any Assistant
Collector of the first grade or class empowered by the Chief
Commissioner to perform all or any ofithe functions of a
Revenue Assistant under this Act];

(20) "standard acre" means a measure of area convestible into ordinary acres of any class of land according to
the prescribed scale with reference to the quantity of yield
and quality of soil;
(21) "state" m q n s the '[Union territory] of Delhi;
(22) "uneconomic holding" means a nolding of less than
eight standard acres which, according to local conditions,
is not sufficient to maintain a family unit consisting of a
person, his minor children, his wife or her husband, as the
case may be, and if the person himself. is a minor, his fathtr
and mother;

(23) "village" means any local area whether wmpact

# otherwise recorded as a village in the revenue records d

the Delhi State and includes a n j ares which the Chief Commissioner may, by a general or special order published 9
the official Gazette, deldare to be a village;

(24) words and expressions. _grove, grovz-holdzr. rent,
cess Sir, '[****I rent-free grantee, landholder, ex-proprietary
tenant, occupancy tenant, ncm-occupancy tenant, sub-tenact,
4[****] and crops or any other expressions, not defiaed In
this Act a_qd used in the Agra Tenancy Act, 1901, or &
Punjab Tenancy Act, 1887, shall have the meaning assigned to them in the b r a Tenancy Act, 1901, or the Punjab
Tenancy Act. 1887, according as the context refers to the
Shahdara or the remaining circles;

---

'
'Subs. by sec. 2(b) of Central Act 1 of 1966 (retrospectivelj-). '
'Subs. by A.O. (No. 5) 1957 for the words "State of Delhi".
'The word "Khudkasht" rep. by s. 3 of Central Act 4 of 1959, (w.e.f, 20-7-1954).
T h e woad "holding" rep. by s. 3 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956.

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
II-A.

(Chapter I-Preliminary.-Cltapter

63

!

Tenures)

(25) words and expressions, land revenue, '[***I and
Tahsildar, not defined in this Act and used in the U.P. Land
Revenue Act, 1901, or the Punjab Revenue Act, 1887, shall
have the meaning assigned to them in those Acts, as the
chse may be.

4. (1) There shdl be, for the purposes of this Act, only ~~~~~$~
orre class of tenure-hoTder, that is to say, 'Bhumidhar' an3 sub-tenure.
one class of sub-tenure bolder, that is to say, 'Asami'.

(2) Tenure holder mears a person who holds land dlrectly under and is liab1~to pay land r-venue for that land
to the State, and sub-tenure hdder is a person who holds
land from a tenure-holder or Gzon Sabba and is liable to
pay rent therefor to the tenure-holder or a Gaon Sabha:
'[Provided that land given in exchange to a tenureholder or a sub-tenure holders, as a result of consolidation
of holdings, shall for the purposes of this Act be deemed lo
be land originally held by the teiiure holder or the subtenure holder, as the case may be].
5. Every person belonging to any of the following c!as- Bhurnidhar.
ses shall be a Bhumidhar and shall have all the rights and be
subject to all the liabilities conferred or imposed cwon a
Bhumidhar by or under this Act. nsmeg :

-

(a) a proprietor holding Sir or Khudkasht larrd

"[****I a proprietor's grove holder, an occupancy tenant

under section 5 of the Punjab Tznancy Act, 1887, paying rent at revenue rates or a person holding land under
Patta Dawami, '[or Istamrari] with rights of transfer by
sale, who are decIared Bhumidhars on the commencement of this Act:
(b) every class of tenants otier than those referrzd
l o in clause (a) and sub-tenants who are declared Bhumidhars on the commencement of this Act; or
(c) every person who, after the commencement of
this Act, is admitted to land as Bhumidhar or who acquires Bhumidhari rights under any provisions of this
Act.
P

m
e word

"Revenue

Assistant" rep.

by s. 3 of

Wi-7-1954).
I n s . by s. 4 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956.
T h e words "under his cultivation" rep. by s. 4 of
%?- '-954).
%C

Cenlral Act 4 of
Centrhi

1959. (w.e.f.

Act 4 of 1959. (w.e.t

words "or Istarnrari" Ins. by s. 4 of Central Act 4 of 1959. (w.e.f. 20-7-1954).

The Delhi Land ReformsAct, 1954
(Chapter ZZ-A.

Tenures-B. Acquisiti~n of certain ri,gktts
of proprietors)

6. Every person belonging to any of the following classes shall be an Asami and shall have all the rights and be
subject to all the liabilities conferred or imposed upon an
Asami by or under this Act, namely(a) every pcrson who, in the agricultural year immediately &fore the commencement cf tkis Act, LY$ped or held land(i)! as a non-occupaac4 tenaht of proprietor's
grove;
(ii) as a sub-tenact of tenant's grove:
(iii) as a noa-occupancy tenant of pasture land.
or of land covered by water and used for the purpose of growing singhara and other ~:32uce or land
in the bed of a river and used far carnal or occasional cultivation;
(b) every person who, in accordance with the provisions of '[section 36 or section 65Aj, becornes a lessec
of land comprised in the tenure of a Bhurnidhar referred to in that secti~n;
(c) every person who is admitted as a lessee of land
referred to in sub-clause (iii) of ciause (a) by the G a m
Sabha or a person authorised to do so under ihc provisions of this Act:
,

(d) every person who is a tenact of Sir Dr a sub-

tenant of an occupancy tenant uader secticl 5 of :h~_
Punjab Tenanlsy Act, 1887, or of a Pattada~Dawami
or Istamrari, with right of transfer by sale, ssho belongs
to any of the categories of persons referred to in ss5section (2) of section 10, and every person who is a subtenant of tenants refe~redto in clauses (a), (b) had (c)
a qf sub-section (1J of section 12 to whcm rhe ~rrovision
o't sub-section (2) of section 10 applies; and
(e) every person who acquires the rights of an
Asami under any other provisions of this Act.

1

B. Acquisition df certain rights of proprietors
7. (1) All rights of a n individual proprietor or proprietors pertaining to waste lands, grazing or collectica of fsrest
produce from forest or fish from fisheries lands of commcn
utility, such as customary common pasture lands, cremation
or burial grounds, abadi sites pathways, public wells, tanks
and water channels, or Khalihans, whether coyered by an
etc.
existing
contract Setween such proprietor or proprietors and
to vest in
c+aon Sabha any other person Or not, shall with effect from the commenand corn- cement of this Act be terminated in accordance with the
Pensatlon to provision d sub-section (2) and the said contracts, if any.
pmd for shall become ~ o i dwith effect from such commencement:
them.
Rights of
ProPnetors
in waste
lands,
pasture
lands of
ammon

"Subs. by set. 2 of Cntral Act No. 38 of 1965.

,

1

1

\

I
The Delhi LaacE Reforms Act, 1954
)

(Chapter ZI-B.

65

4cquisiti~nof certain rights of Proprietms)

'[Provided that where such land was as a result of consolidation of holdings made avaiiable for use for any purposes other than those referred to in this sub-seclion, land
kept aside in exchange thereof, as a result d such consolidation, siail for the purposes of 15% Act L% deemed to be
land originally meant far purpcsss referred to in 1h;s subsection].
Expimzation,-For

the purposes of this sub-section-

(i) "waste land" shall include cultivable 2nd uncultivable waste ar2a of tbe vlilage YE"**] '[icciuding
any land in the bed oE a river, occ~piedor he12 by sn
Asami referred to in sectioa 6:a) (iii) of the Act] '[excez
the uncultivated areas--

(a) included in the holdiags of such proprietor
or proprietors, or
(b) used for purpose., other than those mentioned in clause (13) of sectics 3, at any lime b-fore ihz
28th day of Octolber, 1956, c r

(c) acquired by a bona f?de purchaser for valse
at any time before the 28th day of Cktolier, 1956, for
purposes other than thasp, mentimed in slause (131 of
section 3;
(ii) "lands of cornmoil utility" shall include such
lands as are recorded as such at the last settlenleot or
have bcen 0: would have been customarily recorded as
such on 1st July, 1950.1

(2) On the commencement of this Act, the Deputy Commissioner shall pass an order in r e s p t of the proprietor or
proprietors of each village either singly or collectively divesting the individual proprietor or propretors of the rights mzntloned in sub-section (1) and vesting those rights in the Gaon
Sabha YE"**]or in any person or authority appoinred by the
Chief Commissioner under section 161 with etfzct from the
commencement of this Act and stating that a compensation
equal in v a l u ~to four timns the amount of annual land revenue assessed at the last settlement for the cultivable and
uncultivable waste area of the village '[****I shall be paid
by the Government to the proprietor or proprietors concemed.
qns. by s. 5 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956.
m e words "recorded as such on 1st July, 1950" rep. by s. 5 of Central Act 4 05
1959. (w.e.f. 20-7-1954).
' I ~ s .by s. 5 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956.
4subs. by s. 5 of Central Act 4 cf 1959 for the words ''3xcept the uncultivated areas
included in the holdings of such proprietor or proprietors". (W.e.f. 20-7-1954).
me words "consisting of all the adults residents of th? village" Rep. by s. 5 of
Central Act 4 of 1959.

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter II-B.

Acquisition of certain rights of Proprietors)

'[If no such assessment of Iand revenue was made at

the last settlement the rate of land revenue applied at the
last settlement for similar areas in any other village in the
came assessment circle shall be taken to be the rate of Iand
revenue applicable to such areas or failing this the rate of
land revenue applicable to such areas shall be computed at
75 per cent. of the land revenue assessed on the lowest
class of soil in the vi2tage.l

he amount of compensation shall be calcdatedfor each village for the respsctive proprietor or
s in accordailce with ruks made uul.id:r this Act
and payrnents t;2?1-~3fshall bc mltde in srch ~urnber of
annual ir,staIrr,ents, '[not exceeding £cur, as the Chief Commissioner may determine, the first of which shall be paid(a) in any case where such calculation has been
made before the date on which the D'elhi Land Reforms
(Amendn~ent)Act, 1959, receives the assent of the President, on the first day of the fasli gzar next folllow~ng
such date; and
(b) in azly other case, on the first day of the fasli
year next follovving the date of such calculation.]
'[(4) Where the amount of compensation is not paid
by the due date specified in sub-section (3), such amount
shall be paid with interest thereon at the rate of 23 per
cent. per annum from the said date until payment.]
Private
8. (1) All private weHs in or outside holdings, aII tanks,
wells, trees grovers and abadis, a!l trees in abadi. and all buildings situate

in abadi
flnd build~ngs.

within :he limits of an estate belonging to m held by a proprietor tmenant or other person, whether residing in the village or not, shall continue to belong to or bc heid by suzh
proprietor, tenant or person. as the case may be, on such
conditions as may be prescribed by the Chief
terms .
Cornm:ssroner.
(2) d[lrces planted by a pcrson other than a proprietor
of land other than land comprised in his holding shall continue to belong to or be held by such p e r m on such terms
and conditions as may be prescribed by the Chief Ccsnn~issioner].

Power to

9. The Chief Commissioner may make Yules for the
purpose of carryhg into effect the provisions of this chapter.

'Ins. by s. 5 of Delhi Acr 16 nf 1956.
'Subs. by s. 5 of Centrd Act 4 of 1959 for the words. "not exceeding two, as the
Chief Commissioner may &termlne, commencing from the fasli year next following the
commencement of this Act." (w.af. 20-7-1954).
"ns. by s. 5 of Central Act 4 of 1959, (w.e.f. 20-7-1954).
'Ins. by s. 6 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956.
'For Delhi Land Bforms Rules, 1954, see Notification No. F. 3(16)/54-GA&R.
dated the 11th Novembe., 1954. See Deihl State Gazette. Part V. dated 20-1-1955, p. 7.

I

The Delhi Land Reforrns Act, 1954

67

(Chapter 111-A. Declaration of Bhumidhari rights,
compematioiz and land Revenue)
CHAPTER

In

,A. Deckmatian oj Bhunzidhari rights, conzpematiolz and
land Revel?rte
10. (1) Every tenant of Sir and sub-tenant d an occu- Tenants of
pancy tenant under section 5 of the Punjab Tenancy Act, $
:,
1887, or sub-tenant of a tenant hclding land under a Patta ,,,,Dawami or Istamsari, with right of transfer by sale, who in pancy
the fasfi year immediate!^. before :II- commentceme:lt of this tenants
Act. is recorded as a tenarit d Sir c r zs a sub-tznant. shall
of
be deemed to be a non-cccupancy tenant of the ia:~d held the punlab
by him 2.t the rat'e of rezt payable by bim in the said year Tenancy ~ c t ,
.and the land held by such tenant a r ~ dsub-tenant shall not 1887, and
for the ~u:pols;s of setion 11 be :.v~ilabie to the Sirholder, of Tenants

zdanh

occupancy tenant unbzr section 5 zf the Pmjab Tenancy
Act. 18S7, or to the Fattadar D a v : a ~ or Isramrarl fo.- ac- land with
Patta Daquisition of Bhumidhari rights.

wami or Is-

(2) Nothing in sub-section (1: shall apply to a tznant tamrari and
of Sir or a sub-tenant of cccupanc~tenant under sectron 5 of of transfa
the Punjab Tenancy Act or of the said Pattaciar. if his land by
'hdder belongs to any of the followkLgcategories of persons-(i) a woman,
(ii) a minor,
(iii) a lunatic,
(iv) an idiot,

(v) a person incapable of cultiyation by reason of
b!indness or physical infirmity. or
(vi) a pzrson 'in the armed forces of the Indian
Union. both at the commcnce-iqent of tenancy and on
the commencement of this Act,
(vii) a person prosecuting studies in a recogriized
institution and not exc5eding 25 years in age, or (viii) a person under detention or
m the commencement of this Act:

imprisonment.

Provided that where a holding is held jointly by seve.rdl landholders of whom one or more but not all are psrsons
belonging to any of the abme categories, nothing in subssection (11) shall apply to the share of these persons in the
holding and such share shall be avsilable for the acquisition
of Bhumidhari rigkit: by these persons.

11. (1) Subject to the provisions d section 10, the Declaration
Deputy Coinmissioner shall declzra as Bhumidhars pcrsons ~~a~~~~
holding the foliowing lands, namejy :in favour of.
proprietors

(a) Khud Kasht land or a proprietor's grove in the and , x P e r i o ~
tracts to which the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1887, was ap- class of
plicable or Sir land or Khud Kasht land or a prsprie- tenants,
tor's grove in the tracts to ~ h i c hthe Agra Tenawy ~ ~ f ; i ~ ~ ~ t
Act, 1901, was applicable;
revenue.

,

/

68

The Delhi Land Reforms Act. 1954

(Chapter III-A. D ~ ~ t i of
o Bhumidhmi
n
rights,
compensation and land Revenue)
(b) land held by occupancy tenants under section
5 of the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1887, with right of transfer by sale; and
(c) land heid under Fatta Dawami or Istamrari by
t e p n t s with right of transfer by sale.
'E(2) For th-, plqoses of sub-secticn (I), ;h= Leputp
Commissioner shall take into ccnsideratio~~
the enxlies in the
revenue records which shall be presumed to be L----- ~ L I ~uqC ~
less the contrary is proved] :

Provided thzl where land htId as Khud Kash'. by a
proprietor beiovging t2 any of tkc categmies of persoas referred to in sub-sectior, (3) of section 10 has bee2 belore
the comnencemenr of this Act, let out to anotthec person
by or on behalf of such poprietor, tile Revenue Assistant.
on applicalion made t o hirn in this behalf by or or? &haif
of such proprietor withill six nsnths of the com-rr:ernent
of this Aci and after givirg an apporlunity to the tenant of
k i n heard, ~lialldeclare such land to be the proprietor's
Khud Pasht for the parpcses cf this section.

.

(3) While making a declaration under clauses (5) and
(c) of sub-section (11, the Deputy Commissioaer s;~a!l o r d a
the xcupanc1J tenant zr the Pattadar to deposit ir Govern.
ment Treasury an ari;olun: equal to b u r times thz land revenue as ascertained in su3-soctim (4). for the area of w l l i c ~
he is declared as Ehumidar as coispensaticx3 thereof. If hi:
fails to d e p ~ s i tthe arnouni withir; six months of the date
of declaration, the same shall be realized as arrear QE land
revenue.' The amount deposited or so realized shall be dis- '
bursed to tke proprietor under ;he order of the Revenue
Assistant.

(4) Every person, who is decared as Bhumidhar under
this section, shall, with effect from the cmmenc'ement of
this Act, be liable to pay to the Government for land, held
by him as such. on account of land revenue, an amount
which shall proportionately correspmd to the land revenue
payable immediately before the commencement of this Act
for the area in respect of which he is declared Bhunlidhar,
with due regard to the class of soil comprised therein. together with the cesses and lccal rates.
Sub-tenants

12. (1) Every sub-tenant-

pancy exproprletarytenants,

(a) of an occupancy tenant other than an occupancy tenant under section 5 of the Punjab Tenancy Act,

of occu-

etc.

\

7

1887. or

'Subs. by s. 6 of Central Act 4 of 1959 for the words "the basis for the purposw oE
this section shall be the records of the fasli year immediately precced:ng the commencement of this Act. (w.e.f. 20-7-1954).

P
I

(

P8b

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter 111-A. Decimation of Bhumidhrvi rights,
compenrdion and land Revenue)
(b) of an exproprietary tenant, or of a nOn-Gccu.pancy tenant of over twelve years or less, or '[of a rsn:
tree grantee or a grantee at a favourable r d e of rsiit.
or1
(.c) of a tenant holding land un.'er a Patta Daaami or Istamrari but without right d transfer b y sale.

who is recorded as such in thz fasli year, before the corrimencement of this Act, shall be d e e ~ e to
l be a non-oclupancy tenant of the land held by him and such land, icr
the purposes of section 13, shall not be available to the occupan2.y tenant, enprogri-irry tenant ' [ r ~ n - o c ~ u p n c )kfi'
ants, rect free graniee or 3 nrantee ?i favowable rate of
rent or Pattadar] for acquir.tion of fi~cmidharirights.
(2) The piovisions of s ~ b - s e c t i 3( 2~) of section 10 ri:d
apply, mutatis mutandis, to this sechor..
the commencement c I this Act, the De- %umidhai
13. (1)
~ d t yCommissioner shall also declare the following C ~ S S rights
other
~ S
case%,
"
of teoailts as Bhunidharr, who shall, with efiect from tkc
same, have all the rights and be subject to all the liabi!i:ies
conferred or imposed 4 ~ 0 2Bhumidhers ccder this
namely :-

(a) a rent fret orantee or a grantee at frvourabb
rate of rent:
(b) an exp;oprietary tenant ic Shahdara Circie;
(c) an cccupailcr tenant, except those undtr section 5 of the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1887;
(d) a non-m;.upncy tenani. who pa) S rent al rrvenue rates with or withcat Malikana;
(,) a tenant of Sir or a sub-tenant declared as
n,-mcupancy
tenant under section 10 or 12;
3[ma tenant of or over twelve.years in Shzih33ilra
Circle and a non-occupancy tenant ln any par1 ~ o f
Union t e r r i t ~ yof Delhi other than a non-occupan;g
tenant referred to in clause (dl;?
(2) a tenant grove holder; and
(h) a holder of patta Dawami or IStamrari without any right to sell.
(2) Every person who, after the cCmImenCement of this
~ c t is, admitted to land as Bhumidhar c r who a c q ~ i r ? ~
Bhumidhari rights under any provisions of this Act, shall
__-__-,

-

B]ins. by s. 7 of Delhi Act i 6 of 1956.

a b s . by s. 7 of Delhi Act 16 ot 1956 for the words "non-occup~ncy tenaob or

p&dar.''

aabs. by pet. 3 of Central Act 1 of 1966 (retrospectivel~).

70

The Delhi Land Reforms Act. 1954

( ~ h a ~ rIll-A.
er
Declormion of Bhumidhei right*.
compensation and land Revenue)

have all the nghts and be subject to all the liabilities conferred or imposed upon Bhumidhars under this Act with
effect from the date of admission or acquisition, as the case
may be.
$4. (1) Every person, declared as Bhumidhar under
sub-section (1) of section 13, shall with effect from the comland
mencement of this Act, cease to pay rent of the land in
revenue
payable by respect of which the declaration has been made to the
Ebumiproprietcr or the landholder, as the case may be.
Compensa-

b@nand

dkars declared as

section 13.

(2) Every such person. oiher than a sub-teiiant d e e m
ed to be a EOE-occupancy tenant under section 10 or 12,
shall--

(a) Be liable for payment of such amount on account of land revenue for the holding or his share
t!;,:rein, as the case may be, as shal! be one half d
the amount of rent payablz or deemed t o be payable
by him i n the Casli year immediately preceding the
caixrnencemen: of this Act together with cesses and
lozal ra:es of the area of which ha is declared Bhui&
dhar from the cmrnen:ement of tkds Act:
Provided that whera half the amonnt d rent payable
or deemed to be payable by him in the fasli year imimdiately preceding the conrmencement of this Act is less
than the actual amount of land revenue payable immedjately before the commencement of this Act for the holldinq
or his share therein, the Iand revenue shall be the said ac:ual amount of land revenue, and where the said half the
amognt of rent is gre2ter than twice the actual amount of
land rcvanue payable inmediately before the cornpence
a e n t of this Act, the land revenue shall be twice the said
actual amount of land revenue,
7

(b) be liable to pay as compensation in the Gwernment Treasury to the credit of the proprietar concerned an amount which shall in the case of ienants
with permazeat and heritable rights, i.e., in tllc case
of tenants under clauses (b), (c) and (hl of sub-section
(1) of section 13, be eight-times the amount of land
revenue so determined and in the case of non-occupancy tenants, i.e., tenants, o~f Sir or tenants under clauses
(a), (d), (f) and (g) of sub-section (1) of section
13, 5p, sixteen times the Iand revenue so determined.
(3) Every such person, being a sub-tenant, who is declared as Bhumidhar under clause (e) of sub-section (1)
of section 13 shall-

(a) be liable for payment of such amount on account of land revenue for the holding or his share therein as is 'determined on the ssme principle as laid down
in clause (a) of sub-section (2).

The Delhi Land ReformsAct, 1954
(Chapter Ili-A. Decimatioiz ofBhzimidhari rights,
compensation and land R e v e n u ~ )
(b) and be liable to pay as compensation zn
amount equal to 20 times the land revenue so daermined under clause (a) which shall be distributed between his immediate landholder and the proprietor in
accordance with the following scale :Tenants with a right
of transfer, i.e.,
tenants holding land
under clauses (b) &
fc) of sub-secrion
(1) of section 11.

Occupancy tenante
with permanent and
heritable rights.
i.e., tenants

Nan-occupancy

tenants.
i.e., tenants
of Sir and

Compensation to
rhe Proprietor. 4
Compensation to
the landholder 16

(4) The tenant or sub-tenant declared as Bhumidhar
under section 13 shall pay the compensation either in O I ? ~
lump sum within six months of his declaration, or if he
does not elect to pay the compensation in one lump sum,
in ten annual equal instalments together with interest al
such rate as may be prescribed, beginning from the commencement of this Act.
(5) In the case of default in the payment on the ddte
fixed of any instalment under sub-section (4), the alnoune
shall be recovered as arrear of land revenue.

(6) If during the priod of instahent the land revewlr:
is postponed, suspended or remitted for reasons of agricaltural calamity in the area concerned, the payment of compensation shall also be postponed or suspended but in the
case of remission d land rcvenue, the payment of compensation shall not be remitted but recovered in subsequmt
instalments to be fixed by the Deputy Commissioner.
(7) The Revenue Assistant shall annually disburse the
instalment of the Compensation paid by the Bhumidhar
under sub-section (4) or direct the payment of the amount
deposited as compensation by the Bhumidhar in one lump
sum under sub-section (2) or (3) d this section to the pro.
prietm or to the proprietor and landholder or their successor-in-interest, as the case may be, in accordance with the
rules on the subject. The annual disbursements made to
a proprietor and landholder in cases under sub-section <3);
where payments are made by instalments, shall be in the
same proportion as the total compensations payable to

I

72

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954

.

(Chapter III-A
Declaration of Bhumidhari rights, compensation and land Revenue-General consequences of t h ~
terminorion of intermediaries rights)

(8) In this section the expression "rent deemed to be
p y a blew means(i) where the rent is paid in kind, or is based on
an estimate or appraisement of standing crops or on rates
,varying with the crops sown or partly in one d such
ways and partly in another or other of such ways, the
rent shall be deemed to be an amount, which the average value of the landlord's share of the crops gram
in the preceding five years, subject to such rules as
may be prescribed;

i

it,

(ii) where there was no rent payable or fixed for
the holding or area concerned or part thereof, or where
it was held rent-free or at favourable rate of rent. the
rent for the said area shall be calculated at the pievailing village rate of rent; and
(iii) '[where it is not possible to ascertain the c r o , ~
grown in the preeding five years, the rent shall be calculated at the prevailing village rate of r e ~ t ] .
(9) Every person, who, after the commencement of t h i s
Pict, is admitted to land as Bhumidhar or who acquired
Bhumidhari rights under any provisions of this Act, shall
pay the same amount of land revenue a s was payable fm
the land immediately before his admission to or acquisitior~
of B11ul;lidhari rights in the land, together with cesses an2
Iccal rates :

t

Provided that if the last Bhi-~midhar, '[whom] ,he has
replaced wss '[to pay compensation], he shall resume and
conlplete the payments in the same manner:
Provided fmther that in any other case. i.e., where
the last Bhumidhar had already paid up the total amount of
compensation to thz proprietor. he shall not be called upon
:o pay sny compznsation.

B. Gerzer-a1 consequences cf the termination of ir~ermedinries rights

IS. (13 A mortgagee in possession of an estate or share
Estate in
possession ot therein shall cease to have any right in such estate or share,
a

ii the proprietor mortgagor deposits the mortgage money toalid
ayplies for redenption of the mortgage in the proper court,
within a period of nine month's from the commencement of
this Act.

with possession.
gether with interest thereon in Government Treasury

CIns.by s. 8 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956.
2subs. by s. 8 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956 for the: words, "when",
'Subs. by's. 8 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956 for the words "making payment of corn-tion by instalment."

,

The DeUti Land Reforms Act, 1954
r[Chapter IIZ-B.

General colzrequences of the terminailon
of intermedimies rights)

'(2) '[If the proprietor mortgagor deposits the amount
and applies f w redemption as provided in sub-section (1).
he shall be declared as Bhumidhar in respect of the mcrrt.gaged area which was under the personal cultivation of the
mortgagee on the date of such application for redemptipn,
and if any part of the mortgaged area was on the said date
lei but to a tenant, such tenant shall be declared as Bhumidhar in respect of the area that was so let out to him.]
(3) Where the proprietor mortgagor fails to take action
under sub-section (1) within the time specified therein, the
mortgagee d the area mortgaged with possession, ":k***],
shall be declared as the Bhumidhar of so much of the area
martgaged as is under the personal cultivation of the mortgagee.
(4) Where the area mortgaged or part thereof is let out
ta tenants, the mortgagee shall be declared as the Bhumiclhar d the part under his personal cultivation and the
tenaEts shall be declared as Bhumidhars ol their respective
areas let out to them.
( 5 ) Subject to section 11 or 13 the provisions of subsections, (1) to (4) shall apply mutatis mutandis to mortgagee
with possession where the mortgagors were-

(a) occupancy tenants under section 5
Punjab 'Teoancy Act, 1887, or

of

the

(b) tenants holding land on Fatta D a ~ l - a r or
i Istamrari, with right of transfer by sale, or

(c) &proprietary tenants, occupancy teaants ather
than those under section 5 of the Punjab Tenancy Act,
1887, grove holders or tenants holding land on Patta
Dawami or Istamrari without right of transfer by sale.

16. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Consequlaw for ths time bcing in force or in any mortp.ge deed or ences of
other instrument or agreement, where a proprietor mortgagor ~~q~~~~
faiIs to apply for the redemption of his mortgage within the dhari rights
time specified in sub-section (1) of section 15 and the rnort- by mortgagee and tenants, if any, in respect of the mortgaged pro- gagees etc.,
perty or any portion thereof are declared Bhumidhars in accordancs with the provisions of sub-section (3) or sub-section
(4), as the case may be, of that section, the following consequences shall follow, namely :(1) the proprietor mortgagor shall be absoltltely debarred of his right tor redeem the mortgage;
'Subs. by s. 7 of Central Act 4 of 1959 for the original sub-section.
T b e words "whether or not it was the Sir or Khudkasht of the mortgagor on the
date of the mortgage" rep. by s. 7 c,f Central Act 4 of 1959.

74

The Deihi Land ReformsAct, 1954
(Chapter ZZI-B.

General consequences qf the terminatit;i;rk
of intermediaries riehts)

(2) the mortgagee and the tenants, if any. in respect
of the mortgaged property or any portion thereof, who h a ~ e becn declared as Bhumidhars as aforesaid, shall pay *of
the proprietor mortgagor compensation which shall be dc..
termined as follows :(a) the amount of compensation payable by the
mortgagee and each of the tenants, if any, shall be deter.
mined separately in accordance with the provisions lald
down in zlauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (2) of sectioik
14 for determining the ariivuii; of compensation, payable
by a Bhumidhar;

i

9

(b) the amount of compensation as determined
under clause (a) payable by each of the tenants shal?
be paid by him to the proprietor-mortgagor through
court either in one lump sum or in instalments in the
manner laid down in sub-section (4) of section 14;

%

(c) the total amount due from the proprietor
mortgagor to the mortgagee under the mortgage deed
on the date of the commencement of this Act shal?
then be determined in the prescribed manner afks
deducting the receipts if any, by the mortgagee frorn
the mortgaged property;
(d) if the amount of compensation payable b) the
mortgagee to the proprietor-mortgagor is greater than
the amount determined under clause (c) the mortgagec
shall pay through court to the proprietor-mortgagor
as compensation the difference between the two in one
lump sum; '[within six months from the date of thz
order] and where the amount of compensation payable
by the mortgagee is less than ths amount -determined
under clause (c), the entire mortgage money with
interest, if any thereon,, shall be deemed to have been
fully satisfied by the enjoyment of the usufruct ol
the morigaged property and the proprietor-mortgagor
shall not be required to pay anything under the mortgaze deed to the mortgagee.

,

1

(3) where a tenant mortgagor, referred to in sub-section
(5) of section 15. fails to apply ior rdemption within
the period specified in sub-section (1) of that section, the
provisions of sub-sction (1) and of clause (a) of sub-section
(2) shall apply mutatis mutandis and the amount or ccL11ipensation payable by the mortgagee and his tenants. if
any, in respect of mortgaged land in possession of each to
the proprietor shall be determined separately, in accordance with the provisions of clauses (a) and (b) of s u b
section (2) of section 14. The compensation so determined
shall be paid as follows :(i) where the mortgagor tenant is an occupancy
tenant under section 5 of the Punjab Tenancy Act,
'Ins. by s. 9 of Ddhi Act 16 of 19%

1

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter 111-B.

(

Gemral amsequences of the termination
of intermediaries rights)

1887, or a Pattadar Dawami or Istarnrari with right of
transfer by sale, the amount due from the mortgagor
to the mortgagee under the mortgage shall also be
determined in it--dance
with clause (c) of sub-section
(2). The mortgagee or his tenants shall each first
pay out of the total c m ~ n s a t i o ndetermined above,
an amount equal to four times the land revenue payable for the land in his possession immediately before
the commencement of this Act, to the proprietor. If
the balance of the compensation payable by the mofe
gagee and his tenants, is greater than the amount d m
to the mortgagee from the mortgagor under thp mortgage the difference shall be paid by the mortgagee and
his tenants, as comgxnsatioil to the mortgagor tenant
'[in one lump sum within six months from the date of
the order, first by the mortgagee's tenant upto the extent of the balance of his share of compensation an2
then by the mortgagee upto the extent of the amomit
left over, if any]. If it is less, the entire mortgage
money with interest shall be deemed to have been fully
satisfied by the enjoyment of the usufruct and nothing shall be payable to the mwtgagee in adjustment
of the mortgage money,
(ii) where the mortgagor tenant is a tenant, other
than an occupancy tenant under sectim 5 of the Punjab Tenancy Act. 1887, or a Pattadar Dawami cx
Istarnrari with right of transfer by sale, the entire
amount of compensation payable by the moltgagpe
and his tenants, if any, shall be paid direct to the
proprietors of the mortgagor tenant and the mmtgage
money, shall be deemed to have been fully satisfied
by the enjoyment of the usufruct.
'[IMA). Where a tenant is declared as Bhumidhar io ~
~
~
respect of any part of mortgaged area that has been re- declared
deemed under sub-section (1) of section 15, the cmpen- Bharnidhar
sation payable by such tenant to the mortgagor shall be of
determined and wid in the manna provided in clause (2)
or clause (3) of section 15 according as such tenant is declared a Bhurnjdhas uiider sub-section (2) or sub-section
15) of secti~n15.1
ITir.Notwithstanding any contract made or anything Variation id
done or permitted to be done, on a after the first day of ~ ~ r ~ u I ~ s r .
July, 1950 by or on behalf d a proprietor or a tenant, in 1950, not
respect of any land in the State, the rent payable therefor by be recognithe. tenant in the fasli year immediately preceding the corn- zed.
mencement cvf this Act shall be deemed to be an amount
equal to the rent payable by the tenant or his predecessorin-title on the date aforesaid and any reduction or remission
made therein after the said date otherwise than in pursuance
of a decree or order of a court shall not be taken into
account :

'Ins. by s. 9 of Ddhi Act 6 of 1956.
Tns. by 8. 8 of Central Act 4 of 1959. (w.e.f. 20-7-1954).
6-1 Ddhi Adm.170

,

~

The Delhi L a d Reforms Act, 1954

76

(Chapter ZII-3.

General msequences of the terrninariutt
of intermedories rights)

Provided that where the rent reduced in pursuance uf
any decree or order aforesaid is less than tb- ainosct cornputed at the prevailing village rate of rent the rent payable
shaU be an amount so computed.
Contract
18. (1) Any contract or agreement made betweea a
agreement proprietor and any person on or after the 1st day of J ~ Y ,
or eviction
which has the effect, directly or indirectzy d defeatinq
to d ~ f ~ 1950,
t
provisions the provisions of this Act shall be and is hereby declared
of this
null and void.
Act to be
void.

(2) Notwithstanding any decree or order where a tenant
i
r or sub-tenant of tenants referred to in sub-section. (1)
of S
of section 10 or sub-tenaot d tenants referred to in section
12 or a non-occupancy tenant referred to in cleuse (fl of subsection (1) d section 13 was evicted from lznd a k r 1st July,
1950, on any ground other than for arrears of rent, the tenant
m the sub-tenant shall be entitled to regain possession thereof on his making an application in this behdf to the Revenue
Assistant an^, shall on regaining possession have the same
rights as he would have had but for such eviction decree
.or order] :

Provided that the land is not in the possession of any
nther tenant in the fasli year inmediately before the cornanenccmsnt of this Act.

'[(3) Notiking in this section shag a8e:t thpv Tights of a
praprietor in aay land held ol- occupied 2t the ccrnr;lt-IIWment of this Act for pusposes other than t~?oecmention%! ia
clause (1;) d section 3.1
Cesseo,
Local
rae and

I

sayar.

19, A Ek.ddhar shall pay io Gaverrunx~tall tl~eresses, iccsl rates and ssyar p:oprtionately tc his lacd revcnrre,
in respct. of his holding.

Any contract or agreement betwen t3e proprietor xAd
any gmscn coapovsding, rejeasing or reduciag tb'? pnymcill
of cesses, local rates m sayar aher the 1st oS .IJy, 1950,shal!
be void.
Shy of suits

stay of

-srg

29. All suits, whether of the first isstance, appeal cr
revision of the nature as specified in Schedule TI pending .n
any court for h m k g on the commencemen.; ctf this Act shag
be stayed.
21. All proceedings whether of the Erst instance, appeal
or revision, of the nature speciged in S c h d d e 11, pending
in any court: for hearing on the cammeccemect d this Act
and all primedings (except in so far as they relate to ths
realisation, otherwise than by ejectment of the judgment
debtor, of cost of compensation awarded in any suit 01-

-

'Ins. by 8. 9 of Central Act 4 of 1959. (w.e.f. 20-7-19541,
.
I
,by ibid. (w.e.f. 20-7-1954)-

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954

77

(Cj'zapter Ill-B. General consequences ~f the termination
of inrermdimties r i g h t s 4 . Use of land azd irnprovemen.fr
-(Bhumidhws and Asainis))

proceedings) upon any decree or order, unless it is a decree
or order which became final before the commencement of
this Act, but is not a decree which may be executed by ejecrrnent d the judgment debtor passed in any such suit or proceedings previous to the mmencement of this Act, shall
be stayed.

%

impmve~nents-(Bhumidhars arrc!
Asamis)
22. A Bhumidhar or Asami shall, subject to the provi- Right of
sions of this Act, have the right to the excl~~sive
pssessicn Bhumidhar
of all land comprised in his respcctivtive holding and to usc P',
land for any purpose connected with agricuirure, horticulture elusive pasor animal husbandry which includes piscicuilure and poultry session of
farming and to make any improvement.
Iand in
,
C . Use of lami and

2::-

his holding.

"

23. (1) A Bhunidhar or Asami shall not be entitkd Use of
to use his holding or part thereof for industrial pmpses, holding for
other than those immediately connected with any d the p r p s e s referred to in saction 22, mless t k z land lies withhi
the belt declared for the purpse by the Chief Commissi~nzr
by a notificati~niin the official Gazetie :

! : : ; ;F

Provided hlzt the Chief Commissmer may, on a p f i cation preseoted to the Deputy Cornissic zer in the prescribed manner, sanction the use of any hcluhg or pan tlzelzof 5
j
r a Bhcnridhzr for industrial pnr-wscs even thargh it
does nDt lie w:tliin suclz a belt.
(2) "$!here pemdssicn !or indus'rial p r p s e s is ;ccijrd&. tke ;~rovisiorrsof this Chapter relating ic devolution sha?!
cease :o ap$y to the Bhuaidhrr with r z s ? x t to s?li:"uiand
2nd he shall tkereupon be gc~ernedia the rzatter of Gevohticn of the land by personal law to wbiof fie is subject.
24. (1) Wherever any land held by a 3humidi-car which F,ewersion to

is used for industrial purposes has become :an$ uaed for p11-apiculture.
poses conllected with agricult~e,hc1rtrticul'r:~e or auimel hmbandry, whic5 iz~cludespisciculture and p:~:J?qr f a r ~ n i nt~ h
,
Deputy Ccnmissioner on being so sstisfi-d, may, with ~th::
sanction of the Chief Commissioner, make a declaration to
that effect a.nd thereupon the Bhumidhar shall, as respsts
tile land, be subject to the provisions relating to devolutioc.
in this chapter.
(2) Upon, the grant ofathe declaration under sub-section
(1) in respect of any Iand any person other than the Bhurnidhar in possession of the land shall(a) if he holds it under any contract or lease which
is inconsistent with any d the provisions of this chapter,
be deemed to be an occupant liable to ejectment under
section 84,

78

The De$zi Land Reforms Act. 1954
(Chapter ZIZ-C.

Use of lond improvements-(~humidhs
and Asamis))
(b) if he holds it under any contract or lease which
is not inconsistent w& any of the provisions of this
chapter, be entitled to the rights in the land determined in qccordanoe with the provisions thereof.
(3) A&y contract or lease referred to in sub-clause (a)
of sub-section (2) which is inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter shall, to the extent of the ininconsistency,bet
come void with effect from the date elf declaration:
Provided that any mortgage with possession existing on
any such land shall, to the extent of the amount due and ,
secured on such land, be deemed to have been substituted
by a simple mortgage carrying such rate of interest as may
be prsscribed.
Registration
25. A copy of every sanction given or declaration made
of the
under
section 23 or 24 shall be forwarded by the Deputy
sanction or
declaration Commissioner to the Sub-Registrar concerned, who shall,
under donnotwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Registra23 or 24. tion Act, 1908, register the same free of cast in the m a m a
prescribed.
Re?triction
26. No Bhumidhar or Asami shall make an irnprweon lmProve ment on, or detrimental to, any land which is not included
ments.
in the holding, to be benefited thereby '[except-

(a) with the written permission of the landholder
of such land or the Gaon Panchayat, as the case lnsy
be, or
(b) where such permission is nolt given within the
prescribed period, with the written permission of the
Revenue Assistant granted in accorcia~ce with rules
made under this Act in this behalf.]
Works
27., (1) Where a Bhumidhar or Asami has made an hbenefiting provement on land and such land is sold in lieu of arrears
land. of land revenue or in exxxticm of a decree for payment ot

money or the Bhumidhar or Asami is ejected from wck land,
the purchaser or the landholder, as the casc may be, shall ,
become the owner of the iqprovement but the Bh~midhar
. or Asami shall be entitled to the benefit of the improvemsnt
in respect. of the land remaining in his possession to the
same extent and in the same manner as it had hitherto benefited thewby.
(23 Where the Bhumidhar or Asami has made an improvement on land which remains in his possession after e
portion of his land has been soId in lieu of arrears of land
revenue or in execution of a decree or order of Court for
payment of money or after he has been ejected from a pDrtim af bis land, the purchaser or the landholder, as the
case may be, shall be entitled to the benefit of such improvement in rapeat, of land which d~ not remain in the p s session of the Bhumidhar or Asami to the same extsnt and
in the same manner as it had hitherto benefited thereby.
'Subs. by s. 10 of Central Act 4 of 1959, for the words "except with the written pcr
Qission of the land holder of such land or the Gaon Panchsryat, as the case may bt."

79

The Delhi Land Reform Act, 1954
h

. r

*

e 1 1 1 . Use of land mtd improvements(Bhumidhars and Asamis))l

28. (1) An Asami who has made any improvement %Right to
with the '[written permission of the landholder, the Gaon rompensaPanchayat or the Revenue Assistant], as the case may be,
,ahall be entitled to compensationment made

z;rge

?

by an

(a) when a decree or order for his ejectment is Asami.
passed on any ground other than his making any transfer in contravention of the provisions of this Act or on
the groulld of his using the land for any purpose olher
than agriculture, horticulre or animal husbandry, which
includes pisciculture and poultry farming;
(b) when he has been wrongfully deprived of psession by the Gaon Panchayat or his landholder, as
the case may be, and has not recovered possession of
his holding; or
(c) when he vacates the holding on the expiry of
his lease or on becoming liable to ejectment on any
ground mentioned in clause (a).
(2) No compensation shall be payable to an Asami
where the improvement was made without the written "permission] as aforesaid.

29. In determining the amount of compensation for im- Determinatlon of the
provement regard shall be had t<ramount of

compensa(a)
. , the cost of the work.
tion.
(b) the condition d the work and the period during which it is likely to add materially to the value of
the holding.
(c) the amount by which the quantity or value of
the produce of the holding is increased by the work.
(d) the length d time during which the Asami
claiming compensation has had the benefit of the improvement, and
(e) the age of the trees, their class and the income
likely to accrue from them.

30. (1) In any suit or other prweeding for ejectment Court to
of an Asami, the Court shall, where compensation for im- ~ ~ p
provement is payable, before passing a decree or order for tionfor
ejectment, assess the amount of compensation payable to the improveAsami under section 29.
ments.

-

(2) If the amount d compensation exceeds the amount
recoverable from the Asami as arrears of rent whether decreed or not, on account of the holding, together with costs,
if any, the dexee or order for ejectment shall be conditional

'Subs. by s. 11 of Central Act 4 of 1959, for the words "written consent of the Gaon
furchayat of the land holder".
',Subs. by ibid. for the word "Consent".

" e ~ ~

80

"

The De&i Land Rejorms Act, 1954

(Chapter 111-C. Use of laid arzd improvernenfs--(Bhunzidhars and Asamis)-D.
Trmufsi-s(Bizurnidliars and Asamis))

on the payment by the IancihoMer or the Gaon Sabha of the
balance h e to ths A s a : ~within such time as the Court
may dlrect.
(3) If the axrmunt of coxyensation dms not exceed the
amount recoverable from the Asami as specified in PI&sectim (2), the same shall be deemed to have bsen qatisfied
on hs ejectment, and the balance shall, subject to t3e Asamis
right3 to the vahe of the standing crops and trces be recoverable from him.
D. Transfers (Bkumidhar,- and Asamis)
Interest of
a Bhumidhar to
be transferable.
Interest of
an Asami
not transferable.

31. The interest of a B5unidhar shall be transferable
subject to the conditions hereinafter contained.
32. The interest d an Asami shall not be transferable
except as expressly permitted by this Act.

Restrictions
'[33. (1) No Bhumidhar shall have the right to transfer
on the
by sale or gift or oihenviss any land to any person, rjther than
transfers
a religious or charitable i~~stitution
or any person in charge
by a
Bhumidhar. of any such ghmdan movement, as the Chief Conmissioner

*
I

0:

may by catification in the Official G~zelte,sp~cify,where
as a result oftthe traosfer, the transferor shall be lzft with
less than eight standard acres in the Union territmy of

m&i:

Provided that the Chief Commissioner may exempt
from the opcraticm of this section, the transfer of any land
made before the 1st day of December, 1958, if the land
covered by such transfer does not exceed one acre in area
and is used or intended to be used for purposes c t k r than
those mentioned in clause (13) of sectia 3.1
'[(2) Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shal; pecludz
the transfer of land by a Bhumidhar who holds kss than
eight standard acres ofland, if such transfer is ~f the entire
land held by him:
Provided that such BEumidhar may transfer a part of
such land to any religious or charitable instituticn or other
person referred to in su5section (1).
Explam.ztion.-For the purposes of this section. a religious or charitable institution shall mean an institution
establishes for a religious purpose or a charitable purpose,
as the case may be.]
Only simple
34. No Bhurnidhar shall have the right to mortgage
*'*gage
any land belonging to him as such where possession of thz
land by a
~ h ~ ~ mOrtgaged
i d h ~ land
~
is transferred or is agreed to be transferred in future to the mortgagee as security for the money
allowed.

advanced or to be advanced.
'Subs. by Sec. 28 of Central Act 24 of 1960.
¶Re-numbered and Ins. by Sec. 3 of Central Act 38 of 1965.

2'

I

.

The Delhi Land Rejorms Act, 1954

8P

jCh.~~pter
111-D. T r a d e r s (Bhunidhars and Asamis))
39. No B!l,umidaar or Asami shall let, for any p r i e d Letting of
whatsoever, any land comprised in $is holding except 2 1 : 'and.
the cases provid-ed fx in section 36.
ExpEa,~at:o;.n.-~4nyarrangexent whereby a perssn ;s
entitled to a light merely to share 21 the produce griiblr
on the land in consideration of such person assisting cr
partlcipaticg with the tenure-holder in the actual per:'nrmance of agriculturzl operations is not a "lease".

1

/

I.ease by
a disabled!
(a) an unmarried woman, m if married, drvorced prsan.

36. (1) A lshumidhzr who is-

or sepa~atedfrom her husband, or a widav;

(b) a minor whose father has died;

(c) a lunatic or an idiot;
(d) a person incapable of cuhivating by reasm of
blindness, cur physical infirmity;
(el prosecuting studies in a ~smgnizedinstitction
and does not exceed 25 years in age;
(f) in the amed forces of the Indian Union; I***

2[(g) dependent for assistance in agricultural operations on a person serving in the aimed fxces of the
Union and c:r:i?ied by the Deputy Commissioner ti? be
so dependent; or 1

"(hN under detention or imprisonment;
may let the whole or any part of his holding :

Bravided that in the case of a holding held jointly by
more persons than one where but m-e c~ more of them,
s but not all, ar: sl~bjectto the disabilities mentione:! jl:
4[c1auses (a) to (h)], the person or persons may let out his
or their share in the holdicg.
$

(2) W.ere any share of a holding has been let orrt
under the proviso to sub-section (1). the Court may, on
the application of the Asarni ojr any tenure-holder, dztemine the share of the lessor in the holding and partirion
the same.

-

(3) A Bhumidhar, who holds only less than 8 standard acres in the State, may where he dms not join a cooperative farin lease ths whole of his holding to an Asami:
Provided that the lease is for not less than 5 years:

Prwided further that the Bhumidhar shall not be entitled to resume it except for self-cultivation m for breach
of terms d the lease.
I

'Oimitttd by Central Act 38 of 1965, s. 4.
'Ins. by s. 4, ibid.
'Relettered by s. 4, ibid.
'Subs. by s. 4, ibid.

82

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
1

(Chapter 111-D. Trarrsfers (Bhurnidhars and Asamis))
' 37. ~otwithstandinianything contained in the 'Transfer of Property Act, 1882, or the Indian Registration Act,
1908, a lease for a term exceeding one year w from year
to year may be made either by a registered instrument or
in the prescribed manner.
k
38. A lease which fails merely to comply with the proFailure to
register the d i m s of section 37 shall not. for ourwses of 'Bection 421
leas!= under bc deemed to be a transfer kadezin Acontraven&onof thi
s7' provisions of this Act.
Registration
Of a lease.

Successor-in
39. When a holding has been let in accordance with
interest
the provisions of section 36, the successor-in-interest of the
bound by
Bhumidhar shall be bound by the terms of the lease in so
a lease.
far as they are not inzcmsistent with the provisions of this
Act.
Exchange.
'[40. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 33, a
Bhumidhar may exchange lands held by him as such(a) For lands held by any other Bhumidhar as
such, or
(b) for lands for the time being vested in a Gaon
Sabha m local authority or in Government :
V o v i d e d that no such exchange shall be made except
with the permission of the Deputy Commissioner, who
will refuse permission if the difference between the area
of the land given in exchange and of the land received
in exchange in terms of standard acres is more than ten percent of the area in standard acres of the land which is smaller in area.
(2) Where the Jhputy Commissioner permits exchange,

hf shdl also order the relevant annual rugister to be carrevted accordingly.
( 3 ) On exchange made in accordance with sub-section

(I), the parties to such exchange shall have the same rights
in the land received in exchange as they had in the land
given in exchange.]

41. Nothing in section 40 shall affect the amount of the Land reland revenue assessed on or payable for land so exchanged. ~ ~ ~ e
exchange.
42. (1) Where a transfer of any holding or part there- Transfer in
of has been made in contravention d the provisions of "this contravenChapter by a Ehumidhar or Asami] "[the transferee and every tion to
person who may have obtained possession of such holding section 33.
or part] shall, notwithstanding anything in any law, be
liable to ejectment from such holding or part t the suit

'Subs. by 8. 5 of Central Act 33 of 1965.
'Subs. by a. 6, ibid.
'Subs. by s. 7, ibid.
'Subs. by s. 7, ibid.

~

$

,

85

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
,

(Chapter ZZZ-D.

Transfers (Bhumidhars and Asamis))

or the land holder, as the case n a y
be] which shall thereupon become vacant land; but notning in this section shall prejudice the right of the transfer
to realize the whole or portion of the price reaaining unpaid. or the right of any ether person other than the
transferee to proceed against such holding or land in enforcement of any claim thereto.
of the '[Gaon Sabha

[

(2) To every suit for ejectinent under this section the
transferm shall be made a party.
"(3) Notwithstanding anything co~tainedin sub-sed'Ion
(I), the Revenue Assistant also may, on receiving information or on his own motion, take action to eject the transferee and every person who may have obtained possession
as aforesaid, after following such procedure as may be
prescribed.]

-

43. Any transfer of any holding or part thereof madP Transfer
by a Bhumidhar by which possession is transferred to the with postransferee f ~ the
r purpose of ssnring any payment of session by
money advanced a to be advanced by way of loan, and
existing or future debt or the performance cEf an engage- be deemed
ment which may give rise to a pecuniary liability, shall, a sale.
notwithstanding anything contained in the document of
transfer or any law for the time being in force, be deemed
at all times and for all purposes to be a sale to the transferee and to every such sale the provisions of sections 33
and 42 shall apply.
44. When a Bhumidhar other than one referred to i n , ~ f f woft
section 36 has let out his holding or any part thereof, the lease in conlessee will, notwithstanding anything contained in any law
or contract or document of lease, become and be deemed 36.
t o be a purchaser and the provisions of section 33 and 42
shall mutatis nzutandis apply.

:hf::F

~~~~~~

45. (1) Any transfer made by or on behalf of a Bhu- Transfer
midhar or Asami in contravention of the provision of this made in
Chapter shall be void.
contravention of

Chap3[(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall apply to any this
ter to
transfer which has been exempted by the Chief Conlmis- be void.
sioner '[under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 33.11

47. Upon ejectment "[under section 421, all the rights Consequenand interests of the Bhumidhar or Asami in the holding
or in any improvements made therein or to get m p e i x a - under swtion for such improvements shall be extinguished.
tion 46.

gt2ent

'Subs. by s. 7 of Central Act 38 of 1965.
*$ubs. by s. 7, ibid.
'Ins. b y s. 13 of Central Act 4 of 1959. (w.e.f. 20-7-1954).
*Subs. by s. 8 of Central Act 38 of 1965.
'Omitted by s. 9, ibid.
'Subs. vide s. 10, ibid.

T ~ De!hi
T Land Rejorms Act, 1954

Bepusst by
48* (I) A Bhumid'ir may by will bzqueath his hold'dhar.
Bhumiing or any p3n tneie?i except as provided in sub-section

(2)-

#

(2) No Eh~unidlharentitled to ariy hc:cFicg or part in

right 3f a widow, mother, stcp-molher, father'< father.

er's m ~ t h e r ,uamarried daughter, or u~married sister.
, may beqzeath by will s ~ c holding
h
or part.

(3) Every will made under provisions of subsection
(13 shall, notwithstanding anything conlaiiled in any law,
custom or usage, be in writing and attzstd by two persons.
Besuest by
49. NO Asami shall have the right to beqwzalh by will
an
his holding or part thereof.
General
order qf

50. Subject to the provisions of section 48 md 52.
when a Bhurnidhar or Asami beicg a male dies, his interest
in his holding shall devolve in accordance ~ 4 t hthe order
from males.
of succession given below :

( a ) male lineal descendants in the male line
descent :

of

Frovided that no member of this dass shsll inherit if any male descendant between him and the
dweaszd is alive:
Provided further that the son or sons of a predeceased on how lowsoever shall inherit t!:e share which
would have devolved upen the decea5-d if he had
been then alive ;
(b) widow;
(c) father;
(d) mother, being a -widow;
(e) step mother, k i n g a widow;
(f) father's father;
(g)~faiher's mother, being- a widow:
(h) widow d a rnaie lineal descendant in the male
line of descent:
(i) unmarried daughter;

6) brother, being the son of the same father as
the deceased;
(k) unmarried sister;
(1) brother's son, the brother having been a son of
the same father as the deceased;
(m) father's father's son;
(n) brother's son's son;
(0) father's father's son's son;
(p) daughter's son.

t

T h Delhi Lmtd Reform Act, 1954
(Chapter 111-E. DevoIut;on (Bhumidhar and Asami))
51. (1) When a Bhuxmidirar cr Asark. who has after SuccePsion
the commencement of this Act inhzrited aiz interest in any in the
case
WOholding as a widow, mother, step-moth~_r~
father's mother, mana holding
unmarried daughter or mmxrried sister, '[dies or marr;es
or the Asaai abandons or surrenders:!:li~
hhddiilg, itj mherited
shall devolve upon the near:st suwiving heir (su~i;hcir as widaw,
being ascertained in accordant:: with the provisions of sez- rtnfier7
cnughter,
t i m 50) of the last male BIzrir;lidhar or Asami, &her than et,.
one who inherited as a father's faikr.

.,

(2) When a Bhumidhar who has befare the commence-

!'merit of this Act inherited an interest in any holding as a

widow, mother, stepmother, father's moth", daughter, sister
or step-sister(a) dies and such Bhumidhar was on the date a
proprietor d the land comprised in the holding and(it she was in accordance with the persons1 law
applicable to her entitled to a life estate only in the
holding, the holding shall devolve upon the nearest
surviving heir (such heir being ascertaimd in accordance with the provisions of ss.=tion 50) of the
last male proprietor or tenailt aforzsaid; and if
(5) she was in accordance with the personal
law applicable to her ent'tied to the holding absolutely the holding sball devolve in accordance with
the table mentioned in section 53;

(b) '[dies or marries] and such Bhrnidhar on the
date imme'iately befare the said dats held the holding
otherwise t5an as a proprietor, the holding shall devdve upon the nearest suvivisp heir (such heir bzi:?g
ascertained in accordance wit5 the provisions of sectioa 50) of the last male tenant other than one who
inherited as a father's father.
(3) The provisions of sub-section (I) shzll rnritaiis
.murandis appI:y to an Asami who inherited the holding
before the commencement of :his Act.
(4) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall apply tc a persm.
succeeding to an interest in any hslding under the provisions of section 53.
52. When a Bhuaidhar or Asami who has. whether Succession
befofe or after the commencement of this Act, inhe~itedan in the
interest in a holding as a father's father, 3[3c2s m the Arami
fnabandons or surrenders such holding, it] shall devolve up- her,t& a,
on the nearest surviving heir (such heir being ascertained father's

zgizi

i

I

father.

'Subs. by s. 10 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956, for the words "dies, marries, abandons or
amenders such holding or part thereof, the holding or the part".
'Subs. by s. 10 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956, for the words "dies, marries, abandons or
surrmdea?, such holdings".
'Subs. by s. 11 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956, for the words "dies, abandons or surrenders
mch holding or part thereof, such holding or part".

The DeEhi Land Refmm Act, 1954

86

(Chapter 111-E.
'

Devolution (Bhumidhar and A s m i ) i F ,
Partition (Bhumidhar))

in accordance with the provisions of section 50) of the last
male Bhumidhar or Asami from whom such father's father
inherited the interest in the holding.

Succession
53. When a Bhumidhar or Asami. other than one menfo a wO- tioned in section 50 or 51, who is a woman dies, her inrerest
man holding an inte- i the holding shall devolve i i ~cccordance with the order of
:
rest other- s lccession given MOW
wse.

2

(a) male lineal descendants in the male line of descent :
Provided that no member of this class shall inherit
if any male descendant between him and the deceased is
alive :
Provided further that the son or sons of a predeceased son how lowsoever shall inherit the shares
which would have developed up011 the deceased if he
had been then alive;
(b) husband;
(c) widow of a male lineal descendant in the male
line of descent;
(d) daughter;
(e) daughter's son;
(0 husband's brother;
(g) husband's brother's son.
Passing of
interest by
ship.

54. In the case of a co-widow olr a co-tenure or casub-tenure holder, who dies leaving no heir entitled to
succeed under the provisions d this Act the interest in such
hqlding shall pass by survivorship.
I)

I

F. Partition (Bhumidhar)
Holding
of a Bhumidhar
partible.
\

55. (1) A Bhumidhar may sue for
holding.

partition of his

(2) To every such suit the Gaon Sabha concerned shall
be made a party.

56. One suit may be instituted for the partitioil of more
One suit
for partithan one holding provided that all the parties to the suit are
tion
jointly interested in each of the holdings.
several holdings.
Mode of
57. (1) Except as provided in sub-section (3), whenever
partition of
a holding. in a suit for partition, the Court finds-

(a) that the aggregate area of the holding or holdings to be partitimed does not exceed eight standard
acres, or
(b) that the partition will result in a holding of
less than eight standard acres.

I

1

87

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954

(Chapter 111-F. Partition (BhumidharFG. Surrender, Abam
donment, Extinction and Acquisition
(Bhumidihars and
Asamis))
the Court shall in the cases falling under clause (a) instead
of proceeding to divide the holding CT holdings direct the
sale of the same and a distribution of the proceeds thereof.
and in cases falling under clause (b), either proceed to dlvide
the holding in accordance with such principles as oiay be
prescribed or in the alternative dismiss the suit.
(2) The rules fraaed under sub-section (1) shall prescribe the circmstanccs in which compensation may be
awarded to a co-tenure holder in lieu of his share d holding
and for the admission by the Gaon Sabha of such co-tenure
holder to land under provisions of section 73.
(3) In the case of a co-tenure holder to whom the provisions of section 36 apply and such tenure-holder has let
out his sham or part thereof in the holding, the Court shall
divide the holding by separating the share aforesaid, but in
respcct of the remainder of the holding the Court will proceed in accordance with the provisions of this section. if
applicable,

58. Where a Court has under section 57, ordered a sale Valuation
of the holding or holdings, it shall order a valuation of the of the
same to be made in such manner as may be prescribed and be sold. to
shall cBes to sell the same a1 the price so ascertained to the
co-tenure holders in such mder d preference as may k prescribed.
59. If two or more co-tenure holders having an equal ?referential
preferential right severally ask f o r leave to buy, the Co~urt
shall order the sale of th:: same to such one of them as offers
to pay the highest price above the price ascertained under
section 58.

:t:ihz'e.

60. If no share-holder offers to buy'at or above the Sale in
price ascertained under section 58, the Court shall order the
sale of the same to the share-holder who offers to pay the under Sethighest pice.
tion 59.

$%:s;f

(61. Save as hereinbefore provided, when any holding is Procedure
ordered t o be sold in pursusence: of any order made under In sale.
section 57, the Court shall follow such procedure as may
be prescribed.

G. Suvrenda, Abcrndorunent, Extinction and
( B h u m i ~m
s d Asmi$)

Acquisition

62. An Asami may surrender the whole d his holding Surrender
but not any part thereof by giving a notice in writing to the of holding
Gaon Sabha or the land-holder, as the case may be, intimat- by Asami.

ing his intention to do so and by giving up possession thereof.
r

,

63. Notwithstanding the surrender, unless the Asami
applies or gives notice in writing before the first day of
A p d , he shall be liable ta pay the rent for the holding for
the %agriculturalyear next following the date of surrender.

r$zd$

88

'

The Ddhi Land Reforms Act, 1954

(Chapter t l l l - 4 . Surrender, Abaadorrment, Extimtiort and
- Acquisition (Bhumidhars and Asamis))
Abandonment.

64. (1) W'nere an Asarni has not used his holding for
a purpose connected with agriculture, horticulture, or a-?imal
husbandry, which includes pisciculture and poultry farming,
for two consecutive agrimltural years, the G a m Sabha or '
the land-bolder may apply to the Tahsildar f ~ ar norice to
such
to show cause why the holding be not treated
as abandoaed.
(2) The application shall contain such particulars as may
be prescribed.
(3) If the Tahsildar finds that the application has been
duly made he shall cause to be served on the Asami qr publish in thc manner prescribed a notice in the form to be
prescribed requiring him to appear and show cause on a
date to be fixed why the holding be not held as abandoned.
(4) If :he Asami does not appear in answer to the notice
or appears but does not contest it, the Tahsildar shzll declare ';he holding as abandoned and ;hereupon. exczpe as
provided in sections 51 and 52, the holding shall bc deemed to be vacant land.
Admission
65. Rrllere a Bhumidhar, being minor, lunatic or idiot.
Asami
has
not
used his holding for a purpose coonected wilh agrito the
holding of culture, horticulhe or a~nnal.husbandry wGch Ixludes
a disabled pj>iscicu!t7~e
and poufiry famli~~g, two c o n s ~ u t i vagri~
Bhurnidhar. cultural years, the Gaon Sabia may, n o t w i t h s l ~ ~ d ~
acyip
thL~gcantained in any law, aM:r notice to the Bkum;dbar
and his guardian ai~dafter such enquiry as n a y be p-escribed, after the expry of the two years afcrssa~d,a d z d on '
behag of the EE?runidhar, any pzrson as Asnmi to the land
comprisediin tke hddicg in tke manner and u p n t b t~~ i ~ l S
as :;lay be pr3sc:ibed a;id all the prov;sIons ~ l tiis
- itatzt tippIica5ie tc an A s a shall
~
apply to hirn ns If he k a i been
adxit:ed to the land by the Bhumi-Shar personally.
Consequen'b5A. (!)I Y/f,ere on the bssis cf aqy jifomatioa reces where
shumidhar ceived by Em. (EX otherwise the Deputy- 1C:ornmissjo~:r has

reason ip SeZeve that any land i3cIudcd in the hol3irrg of

leaves land a Bhumibbar or Asami ha:, not been used for two cclsecu~ ~ l t i v a t etive
d - egricu~tuxslyears irmediately ?receding for a pacpase

c ~ ~ e c t e iwith
l ; ag5cultu1-e, hvi*Lic~1:ture. ~ anirnal
r
hsbandry which inclildes ~iscicnltuseor poultry farming, Cc may,
unless the laud lies withia the belt re'%ned to in seztion 23
or unless s ~ n c t i ounder
~
that section has been obtaiced in
respect thzreof, by notice require-

(i) the Bhrrnidhar to appear and show caasr, why
the lsnd rnay not be let out for any such purpse as
aforesaid to any person;

-

(ii) the Asami to appear and show cause shy his
interest rnay not be extinguished and the land res~ored
'Ins. by s. 11 of Central Act 35 of 1965.

.

The Delhi Land Reform Act, 1954.
Surrender, Abandonmefit, Extinction and
AcqLcisitbn (Bhumidizms m d Asurnis))

qf 'hapter I l l - 6 .

(2) The notice under sub-section (1) shall state the
grounds for believing that the land has not been used
ior any purpose reierred to in that subscction'and such
other particulars as may be prescribed.
(3) If the Bhumidhar or the Asami appears and
satisfies the Deputy Commissioner-

(a) that the land was used for a purpose connected
with agriculture, horticulture or animal husbandry which
includes pisciculture and poultry farning during the
period mentioned in sub-section (1);
(b) that he had sdlicient cause for not using it as
aforesaid; or

(c) that he shall within one year next following the
date of service of the notice under sub-section (I), ase
the land for any such puspme as aforesaid ucless in
the meantime the land is included w;:hin any belt referred to in seciion 23 or the use of the land for industrial
purposes is sanctioned under that ssction,
the Deputy Commissioner shall, in a case falling u d c r
clause (a) or clause (b), discharge the notice fmthwith sad
in a case falling under clmse (c), postpme furiksr pzocerrlh g s to a date s;le year aker the bat= of service of tt~esaid
(3) On the date fixed under sub-ation (SF or any o:ser
date tc which t3e proceedicgs may 'se adjcu~rned,tbe Di:pmy
Camissjmer if he is satis5ed that tile l a d has Seen used
fm any such purpose as afmesaid duds2 r4e said periei! of
me year or that the land has beca bciv2cd mithin the S:;ft
refened to in s3.ion 23 or that sanctic?? zs aforecard ><:I.
been obtaiacd in respect "hereof, dischb.ye the notice 01 11
he is not so satissed, d e s s for reslsacs i? be recorded in
writing he allows further time, he shall(;) If the land is that of the Bhuaidhar, kase it on
behalf of the Bhunidhat to any paem for a pericd 3E
five years in such r;;amer and on srch terns md ~ 0 3 ditions as may be prescribed;
(5) if the land is that of the A s a ~ of
i the Bhurnidhar, terxinate the lease and restore the laod to the
Bhumidhar subject to the condition that the Bhunaidhan.
shall undtirake to cultivate the land within six mourhs
from the aate it is restored to him; aad if the Bhuzidhar does not give scch undertaking or fails, after giving such undertaking to cultivate the land within the
said period, the Deputy Commissioner may lease the
land on behalf d the Bhumidhar, to any person for a
period of five years in such manner and on such terns
and conditions as may be przscribed; and

I,

90

The Delhi Lad Reform Act, 1954.
(Chopter IZI-G. Surrender, Abandonment, Extinction mid
Acquisition (Bhumidhurs a d Asamis))
(iii) if the land is that of the Asami of a ~ & n
Sabha, terminate, the lease an6 restore the land to the
Gaon Sabha:
Provided that the restoration of the land of the Asami
under this sub-section shall be without prejudice to any
right of the Bhumidhar or Gaon Sabha, as the case may -be,
to recover any rent due from the Asami.
,

(5) If the Bhumidhar or Asami appears in response to:
the notice under sub-section (1) but does not undertake to;
use the land as provided in clause (c) of sub-section (3), or'
if the Bhumidhar or Asami does not appear in response to!
such notice and the Deputy Commissioner, after such in-:
quiry as he may consider necessary, is satisfied that the;;
Bhumidhar or Asarmi has failed to use the land as afore-2
said during the period referred to in sub-section (I), he shall,f/
unless for reasons to be recorded in writing he decides to;
discharge the notice. take action under clause (i) or clause*
(ii) or, as the case may be, clause (iii) of sub-section (4).
(6) Oa the expiry cf the period of any lease of land
under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5), if the Deputy Commissicmer, after making such inquiry as hs thinks fit, is
satisfied(a) that the land has been properly d t i v d e d , he
may declare the lessee to be Bhurnidkar in respect of
such land subject to the payment by hl.m to the d q i n a l
Bhumidhar d compensation equal to twenty times the
land revenue then payable for $uch lmd either in me
lump sum or in such instalments together with interest
as may be prescribed and upon such declaration the
interest d the original Bhumidhar shall be extinguish-

ed;
(b) that the lagd has not been poperly cultivated
by the lessee, the Deputy Cmmissioner shall terminate

the lease and may lease the land 03 behalf of the Bhamidhar, to another p r s m for a p e r i d of five years in
such manner and on such terns and conditims as may
be prescribed and on the expiry of the _periodof su'zh
lease, the provisions of this sub-section shall apply:
Provided that no lease shall be terminated unless the
lessee has been given a reasonable o p p k m i t y of being
heard.

(7) Ndhing contained in this section shall apply to a
Bhumidhar to whom the provisions of section 65 apply.]
'

Entry upon

m abandoned

66. A Gaon Sabha or a landholder who enters upon a
holding in contravention of the provisicms of section 64 shall'
be deemed to have ejected the Asamil otherwise than in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.

f

91

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter III-G. Surrender, Abandonmefit, Extinction and
Acquisition ( B h u m i d h s and Asamis))

67. The interest of a Bhumidhar in his holding or any ~ ; t ~ ~ ~ t i ~
part thereof shall be extinguishedinterest of
Bhurni(a) when he dies intestate leaving no heir entitid adhar.
to inherit in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
(b) when the land comprised in the holding has
been acquired under any law for the time being in fcrce
relating to the acquisition of land, '[****I
'[(bb) when a declaration in resp-ct of such holding
or part is made under clause (a) G£ sub-section (6) of
section 65A.l
"(c) when he has been ejected in accordance wiih
the provisions of this Act, or]
(d) when he has been deprived of possession acd
his right to recover possession is barred by limitation.
'[(dd) where his lease is terminated under clause
tii) or clause $5) of sub-section (4). or clause (b) of subre; tion (6). of section 65A.l

68. Subject to the provisions of sections 51 and 52, the "extinction
interest of an Asami in a holding or any part thereof shall be of the
~nterestof
eriinguishedan Asami
(a) when he dies leaving no heir entitled to iaherit
in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
(b) when the holding has been declared as abacdoned in accordance with the provisions of sa...tiou 64,

Ic) when he surrenders his holding '[****I,
(d) when the land comprised in the hdding has
been acquired under any law for the time being in force
relating to the acquisition of land,
(e) when he has been ejected in accordance with
the provisions of this Act, or
I

(f) when he has been deprived of possession and
his right to recover possession is barred by limitation.

69. (1) The extinction of the right. title and interest of

ti^

n Bhumidhar shall operate to extinguish the interest of any terest of
Asami holding under him.
an Asami
on extinc(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 75, whe- tion of
never the interest of an Asami is extinguished under sub- fhe intenst

ge

section (I), the Gaon Sabha shill admit the Asami as an
Bbumi.
.Asami to some other vacant land of such valuation compu- dhar.
--a-

'meword "or" rep. by s. 12 of Deihi Act 16 of 1956.
'Ins. by s. 12 of Central Act 38 of 1965.
%s. by s. 12 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956.
'Ins. hy s. 13 of Central Act 38 of 1965.
&Theword "m part thereof" rep. by s. 13 of Delhl Act 16 of 1956.
7-i Deihi Adm.170

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter ZIZ-G. Surrender, Abandonment, Extinction and
Acquisition (Bhumidhars and Asamis))
ted at prevailing village rate of rent applicable to the land
as shall be equal to the valuation of the land on which his
right has determined.
Merger.

70. The interest of an Asami in his holding shall deter-.
mine when his interest and the interest of the Bhumidhar in
the'wfiole of the holding become vested in one person in
the &me right.

Rights and

71. When the interest of a Bhumidhar or Asami is extinguished .he shall vacate his holding and he shall, excepf
In cases where his interest has extinguished under or in accordance with the provisions of any law for the time being
in force relating to the acquisition of land, have in respect
of removal of his standing crops and any construction existing on the holding the same right as he would have upon
ejectment under the provisions of this Act.

of Bhumidhar or
Asami on
extinction
of his
interest.

GaOn Sabha
72. The Gacm Sabha shall be entitled to take possession
to take ova
'
of
land
comprised in holding or part thereof ifland after
extinction
(a) the land was held by a Bhumidhar and his inof interest
therein.
terest in such land is extinguished under '[clause (a) or

clause (c) of] section 67, or

(b) the land, being land falling in any of the clauses
mentioned in sub-clause (iii) of clause (a) of section 6,
was held by an Asami and the Asarni has been ejected
or his interest therein-have otherwise extinguished under
the provisions of this Act.
Admission
land-

73. The Gaon Sabha shall have the right to admit any
person as Bhumidhar to any land, other than land falling
in any of the classes mentioned in sub-dause (iii) ot clause
(a) ~f sction 6, where(a) the land is vacant land,
(b) the land is vested in the Gaon Sabha under
section 154,
(c) the land has come into the possession of Gaon
Sabha under section 72 or under any other provisign
'of this Act,
(d) the land is let in accordance with sub-section
$4) d section 74.

Admission
to

mntloned
in subclause (iii)
of clause
(a) of section 6 or
to waste

land for

74. (1) The Gacm Sabha shall have the right to admit
any person as Asami to any land falling in any of the classes
mentioned in sub-clause (iii) of clause (a) of section 6 where-((a) the land is vacant land,

(b) the land is vested in the Gaon Sabha, or
(c) the land has wme lnto the possession of the
Gam Sabha under section 72 or under any other providon of this Act.

reclamation.
,Subp. by s. 14 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956, for the word "clause (a) of'.

93

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
..(Chpter Ill-G. Surrender, Abondonmenr, Extinction and
Acquisition (Bhumidhms and Asamis))
(2) In order to encourage the reclamation of waste
land, the G a m Sabha shall also have the right to adnlit any
person as Asami on a five years lease to any land which
forms part of the cultivable or uncultivable waste area of the
village not included in holdings, which are vested in the
, G a m Sabha under section 7, but which do not fall in any
.of the classes mentioned in sub-clause (iii) of clause (a) of
section 6.

>

(3) The Asami shall have the right to hold the land for
the period d five years at a rate of rent, which shall not
be more than 50 pzr cent. of the prevailing rate of rent of
fhe village, payable for the land.
(4) At the end of five years, the Gaon Sabha shall report to the Revenue Assistant the extent to which' reclamation has been made. The Revenue Assistant shall, after
necessary enquiry and after hearing the Asami, either order
. the termination of the lease and his ejectment if there has
been no reclamation or extend his lease for another period
of two years. If, however, the land has been duly reclaime d during the period of five years or the extended priod,
the Revenue Assistant shall direct the Gaon Sabha to admit
the Asami as Bhumidhar under section 73. The Asan~ion
his admission as Bhumidhar shall be liable to pay swli land
revenue as shall be equal to 50 per cent. of the rent calculated at the prevailing village rate d rent together with
cesses and local rates, but ha shall not be liable to pay any
compensatim.

75. (1) In admitting any person as Bhumidhar or Asami Order of
under section 73 or 74, Gaon Sabha shall, subject to the preference
rules framed or any order made by Court in a suit for partition or in any other suit, observe the following order of
to
land under
-preference-

;tid$-

sections 73

'[(a) persons in the armed forces of the Union and and 74.
the dependents of such of those persons as are killed
in action, special preference being given in the case d
persons decorated for gallantry.]
2[(aa)] a coqerative farm established under this
Act holding land within the jurisdiction d the Gaon
Sabha to enable it to possess a suitable area of agricultural or culturable land,
(b) a group of landless labourers or a landless labourer resid~ngin the village,
(c) a Bhumidhar residing in the village, who is
holding land less than eight standard acres in area in the
State,

(d) an Asami holding land less than eight s t 2 ~ 3 .
ard acres in area in the village, and

-

'Ins. by Sec. 14 of Central Act 38 of 1965.
'Re-lettered by sec. 14, ibid.

---

94

The D e h i Land Reforms Act, 1954
Surrender. Abandmment, Extitrction
(Chapter Ill-G.
and Acquisition (Bhumidhars and As~rnis)LH. Eje'cttnent
(Bhumidhar and Asami))
(e) any other person :
Provided that the land allotted to a co-operativc farm
under '[clause (aa)] shall, if the registration of such farm is
cancelled within two years of the allotment, revert upon
such cancellation to the Gaon Sabha, and any person holding or retaining possession of such land shall be deemed to
pe a person wcupying it without title liable to ejecrment
under clause (b) of '[sub-section (1) of section 84;]

I

A

Provided further that in the cases to which clnuses
(b), (c), (d) and (e) apply the area to which the person concerned is admitted together with the total area of any other
tenure held by him shall in no case exceed 8 standard acres :
i

Provided also that in the case of reclamation of waste
land under sub-section (2) of section 74, where available,
preference in the first instzincelshall be given to either the
co-operative farm or a tenure holder having estab1ishe:i
provision for mechanised farming in the Gaon Sabha area,
and the Gaon Sabha in that case shall be entitled to let
out in excess of eight standard acres with the previous sawtion in writing of the Chief Commissioner.
'[(2) The Deputy Commissioner may, on his own
motion, and shall on the application of any person aggrieved by an Order of the Gaon Sabha passed under sub-section
(I), enquire in the prescribed manner and if he is satisfied
that the Gaon Sabha has scted with substantial irregularity
or otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, he may cancel such order.
(3) Where the Deputy Commissioner cancels an order
relating to admission of a person as Bhumidhar or ~Asami,
fEle right title and interest of such person or any person
blaiming through him shall cease in the land to which the
order relates and shall revert to the Gaon Sabha and sny
person holding or retaining possession of such land after such
cancellation shall be deemed to be a trespasser in 'respct
of such land and shall be liable to ejectment in the manner
prescribed.]

H. Ejectment (Bhumidhar and Asami)
Bhumidar
not liable
to eiectmeni.
Ejectment
of Asami.

76. Subject to the provisions of section 33, 42, "81, E5,
86. 86A and 871, no Bhumidhar shall be liable to ejectment.

77. 4(1) An Asami shall be liable to ejectment from his
holding on the suit of the land-holder or Gaon Sabha, as
4a) those menfioned in section "421, 69, 74 or 81,
the case may be, on the following grounds o ~ l y -

¶subs. by set. 14, of Central Act 38 of 1965.
'Subs. by s. 14 of Central Act 38 of 1965.
=Subs. by s. 15, ibid.
'Re-nudbered and spbs. by s. 16, ibid.

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter Ill.-H.

.
I

,

95

Ejectment (Bhumidhar m d Asarni))

(b) that he belonss to any of the classes mentioned in sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of clause (a) or in
clause (c) of section 6 and that he holds the land from
year to year oh for a period which has expired or will
expire before the end of the current agricultural year,
(c) that he belongs to the class mentioned in clause
(b) or (d) of section 6 and that-

jj

(i) the land-holder wishes to bring the land under
his personal cultivation and in cases where the lease
is for a fixed term such term has expired. or
(ii) the disability was determined, or

(d) that there is an unsatisfied decree of arrears of
rent outstanding against him and such decree 'tali be
executed by ejectment.

'[(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section

(1) & Bhumidhar referred to in clause (f) of sub-section (1)
of section 36 may. on retirement or discharge from the armed
forces of the Union or 011 being sent on Reserve, within six
months of such retirement or discharge or of his being sent
on Reserve, apply to the Deputy Commissioner for ejectment
of the Asami of his land, and the Deputy Cornmissioner may,
after r~oticeto the Asami and subject to such conditions as
he may think fit to impose. cause possession of the land to
be delivered to such Bhumidhar as soon as possible or, where
there are standing crops on such land, within one month of
the harvesting of such crops.]

E0g,"pzd

78. (1) Where in execution of any decree (other than
a d e ~ r e eunder section 84) or order f w delivery of possession trees when
the Court is satisfied that any ungathered crops or trees which ejectment
are the property of the judgment-debtor exist on the land to takes effect.
be delivered, the Court executing the decree or order shall,
notwithstanding anything in the Code of Civil Procedure,
,1908, proceed as follows :-

(a) if the amount due from the judgment-debtor is
equal to crr greater than the value of such crops or trees,
the Court shaU deliver the possession of the land with
the crops and the trees to the Gaon Sabha or the landholder. as the case may be, and all rights of the judgment-debtor in or upon such crops or trees shall pass
to the decree holder.

(b) if the amount due from the judgment-debtor is
less than the value of such crops or trees and(i) the Gaon Sabha or the land-holder pays :he difference between such amount and the value to the judgment-debtor, the Court shall deliver the possession of
the holding to the Gaon Sabha or land-holder concerned and all rights. of the judgment-debtor in such crops
or trees shall pass to decree holder;
"Ink by s. 16, of Central Act 38 of 1965.

96

The Delhi Land Reforms AC;, I954
(Chapter Ill-H.

Ejectment (Bhumidhar arzd Asami))

(ii) the Gaon Sobha or the land-holder does nat
pay such difference, the judgment-debtor shall have a
right of tending, gathering or removing such crops or
trees m fruits of such trees until such crops or trees
have been gathered and removed or die or are cut down,
as the case may be, paying such compensation for the
use and occupation of land as the Court may fix.
i

(2) The Court executing the decree or the order of ejectTent may on the application of any party determine the
value of the crops or trees and the compensation payable
by the judgment-debtor under the provisions of sclause (b)
of sub-section (1).
79. If a suit for ejectment d an Asami, to whom any
Failure to
institute a of the sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (a) or clause, (b) or
suit for
(d) of section 6 applies, is not instituted or a decree obtainejectment
under sec- ed in such suit is not executed within the period of limitation
prescribed therefor, the Asami shall. on the expiry of the
tion 77
or execute period. k C o m e a Bhumidhar of the land held by him.
the decree
obtained
thereunder.
80. Where an Asami has been ejected from his holding
Consequence of
on the ground mentioned in clause (c) (i) of '[sub-section
ejectment
under sec- (1) of section 771 the land-holder shall not grant a lease thereof to any person within 2 years of the date of ejectment.
tion 77.
Ejectment
for use
tion of
the provisions
this Act'

81. '[(I)] A Bhumidhar or an Asami shall be liable to
ejectment on the suit of the Gaon Sabha or the landholder,
as the case may be, for using land fcr any purpose othsr
than a purpose connected with agriculture, horticulturz o r
animal husbandry, which includes pisciculture and poultry
farming, and also to pay 3[damages] equivalent to the cast
of works which may be required to render the land capable
of us for the said purposes.

'1'2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-ssction
the Revenue Assistant also may, on receiving information or on his own motion. eject the Bhumidhar or Asdmi,
as the case may be, and also recover the damages referred
to in sub-section (I), after following such procedure as may
be prescribed].
82. (1) A decree for ejectment under Section 81 nlay
Decree for
direct the ejectment of the Bhumidhar or Asami from the
ejectment
under set- whole or part of the holding as the Court, having regard to
the circumstances d the case, may direct.
(2) The decree shall further direct that, if the Bhumidhar or Asami repairs the damage within three months next
after the date of the decree, the same shall not be executed
except in respect of costs.
.---(i),

l~ubs.by s. 17 of Central Act 38 of 1965.
'Renumbered by s. 18 of Central Act 38 of 1965.

'Subs., ibid.
ibid.

'm..

A.

97

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter 111-H. Ejectment (Bhumidhar and Asami))

83. Notwith,standing anything in section 81, the Gaon Suit for
Sabha or the land-holder may, in lieu of suing for eject- iEFpensament, s u e
and repair
of the
(a) for injunction with or without compensation, waste or
Or
damage.
(b) for the repair of the waste or damage caused
to the holding
a

84. '[(l'}]
A person taking or retalning possession of Ejectment
land otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of
the law for the time being in force, andpying land

::nri;cu-

(a) where the land forms part of the holding of a
Bhumidhar or Asami without the consent of such Bhumidhar or Asami, or
(b) where the land does not form part of the holding of a Bhumidhar or Asami without the,consent of
the Gaon Sabha,
shall be liable to ejectment on the suit of the Bhumidhar,
Asami or Gaon Sabha, as the case may be, and shall also be
liable to pay damages.

without

'[(2) Where any person against whom a decree for eject- 45 of 1860
ment from any land has been executed in pursuance of a
suit under sub-section (1) re-enters o~rattempts to re-efiter
upon such land otherwise than under authority of law, he
shall be presumed to have done so with intent to intimidate
or annoy the person in possession or the Gaon Sabha, as
the case may be, within the meaning of section 441 of the
Indian Penal Code.]

85. If a suit is not brought under section 84 or a decree Failure to
obtained in any such suit is not executed within the period file suit
of limitation provided for the filing of the suit or the exe- ~
~
cution of the decree, the person taking or retaining posses- to execute
sion shalldecree obtained
(i) where the land forms part of the holding of a thereunder.
Bhumidhar, become a Bhurnidhar thereof;
(ii) where the land forms part of the holding of
an Asami on behalf of the Gaon Sabha, become an
Asami thereof;
(iii) in any case to which the provisions of clause

(b) of '[sub-section (1) of section 841 apply.' become a
Bhumidhar or Asami as if he had been admitted to the
possession of the land by the Gaon Sabha.
3[Provided that if in the revenue records of the fasli year
ending on the 30th June, 1954, the land referred to in clailse
(iii) was not included in the holding of the person taking
or retaining possession or his predecessor-in-interest, or was
'Renumbered and ins. by s. 19 of Central Act, 38 of 1965.
'Subs. by s. 20, ibid.
'Ins. by s. 20, ihid.

~

8

98

The Delhi L d Reforms Act, 1954

(Chapter 111-H.

Ejectment (Bhurnidhar and A s a r n i b
I. Rent (Asami))
not recorded as being in the cultivation of such pxson or
his predecessor-in-interest, then, notwithstanding the expiry
of.the aforesaid period of limitation for such suit or decree,
zbe suit may be filed or the decree obtained in such suit
inay be executed within a period of three years fron tbe
date of passing of the Delhi Land Reforms (Amendment)
Act, 1965:
Provided further that the benefit of the extension ~f the
pzriod of limitation under the preceding proviso shall got
be availed of in any case where a person who has become
a Phumidhar in respect of any land under clause (iii) has
traqsferred such land to another person for valuable consideration before the 10th May, 19651
Ejectment of

85, (1) Any person, who becomes a Bhumidhar uader

Bhumidhar the provisions of clause (i) of section 85, may, notwithstandto
whom set- ing anything hereinbefme contained, be ejected f r m the
tion 85
applies.

land at the instance of the Gaon Sabha within such period
as msy be prescribed.
(2). Where a Bhumidhar has been ejected, his rights in
the holding shall be extinguished and the land shall become
vacant land.

Ejectment by
'[86A. Notwithstanding anything contained in sections
Revenue
84, 85 and' 86, the Revenue Assistant also may. on receiving
Assisbnt of
information or on his own motion, eject any person who is
persons,
liable to be ejected from any land m a suit of the Gaon
occupying

Sabha under any of those ssctions, after i~llowing such

land1
procedure as may be prescribed.]
without title.

Ejectment ot
87. Any person who, on or after the first day of July.
Persons from19509 has been admitted as a tenure or grove holder of, or

',$co:tiliCi.being

a proprietor has brought under his own cultivation or
has planted a grove upon, land which was recorded as or
was customary common pasture land, cremation or burial
ground, tank, pathway olr Khalian, shall be liable, on the suit
of the Gaon Sabha to ejectment from the land, on payment
of'such compensation, if any, as may be prescribed.

I . Rent (Asami)
68. An Asami shall be liable to pay such rent as may

Rent payabls
by an Asami.be agreed

upon between .him and his land-holder or the
Gaon Sabha, as the case may be. subject to the condition
that it shall not exceed one-fifth of the produce of the land
or '[four times the land revenue payable for the land held
by the Asami, whichever is less.]

Rent rtot to

be vaned

89. The rent payable by an Asami shall not be varied
except in the manner and to the extent provided under this
Act.

.

-.

'Ins. by s. 21 of Central Act 38 of 1%5.
%bs. by s. 14 of Central Act 4 of 1959, for the words "if the rent is paid in cash
its equivalent value.

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter Ill-I. Rent (Asumi})
90. (1) Where any person is admitted to or permitted
$ref
lo retain possession of any land as an Asami thereof by ,
,,,
any person having a right to so admit or permit him. but
no rent is fixed, the Asami or the land-holder may, at any
'time daring the period of occupation or within three years
' after the expiry of this period, institute a suit for fixation

gtL
~

;

(2) In any such suit the plaintiff may, subject to the
@iw of limitation, ask for a decree for the arrears of rent.
(3) The rent decreed in any such suit, shall be the rent
payable in the year previous to the yenr of admission, permission or accrual d asami rights, or if no rent was payable
in such year, it shall be fixed at the prevailing village rate
of rent applicable to the land, subject to the maximum laid
#own in section 88.

91. The produce of every holding in the cultivation of Hy~othecaan Asami and the fruit of every tree in such holding shall tl3n of
be deemed to be hyptherated for the rent payable by hi?
in respszt of the holding and, until the rent has been pald p a y ~ e n t
or otherwise satisfied. no other claim on such produce or r-nt
fruit shall be enforced by sale thereof in execution of a
decree or order of a Court.

yz$g

92. (1). An Asami may pay his rent either direct or by P-ent how
postal money order, but the acceptance by the Gaorl 3abl;a payabEe.
or the land-holder of a sum so paid shall not debdr the
Gaon Sabha or the land-holder, as the case may be, from
proving that the amount duc for any year or instalment
was different from the amount paid.
(2) Where rent is remitted by money crder, the payee's
~eceiptor the endorsement of refusal on the money crder
duly stamped by the post office shall be admissible in evidence without formal proof and shall, until the contrary is
proved, be prcsumed to record the receipt or refusal thereof.

93. Where the rent is payable in kind or on estimate Commutation
or appraisement of the standing crop or on rates varying of rentwith crops sown or partly in one d such ways and partly
$i
another or other of such ways, the Revenue Assistant
may at his own instance and shall at the instance of the
Gaon Sabha or the person by or to whom rent is payable
.commute the rent in the manner prescribed.
94. In the absence of a contract to the contrary, the Instaiments
rent shall be payable in two equal instalments on the fifteenth 2:;ment
day of November and the fifteenth day of May of the agricultural year in respect of which the rent is due.

The De/hi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter 111-1. Rent (Asami))
(2) The application shall be signed and verified in the,
manner prescribed for plaints in the Code of Civil Procedure,

1908.
%. (1) On reeipt of the application mentioned in see,-

Issue of
notice to

tion 95, the Court of the Tahsildar having jurisdiction shall
cause to be served on tho, Asami a notice requiring him to

t

pay the amount of arrears together with the cost of the ap1 plication
within thirty days from the date of the service

thereof or to show cause, within a period to be specified,
why an order directing him to be ejected from the hdding
be not passed against him.
(2) If within the period allowed the Asami pays to the
applicant or deposits in the Court the amount mentioned
. in the notice, the Court shall enter full satisfaction and dismiss the application and thse amount deposited shall be paid
to the applicant.
Order for
97. (1) If the Asami, who has been duly served under
payment
On section 96, fails to pay or deposit the said amount in the
failure to
with Court and also does not file any objection the Tahsildar
the notice shall make any order for the payment of the amount and
under sectionin default for the ejectment of the Asami from the holding.
96.

(2) If the Asami appears and contests the claim the
application shall be treated as a suit and, if necessary, the
Court shall order the applicant to pay any additional csurtfee payable according to the law relating to suit for arrears
of rent or ejectment.
.(3) If the applicant fails to pay the lcourt-fee within the
time so allowed, the application shall be rejected.
(4) If the court-fee has been duly paid, the Court shall,
where the Asami plezds that the applicant is not the land, holder or that he himself is the Bhumidhar of the holding or
any part thereof, transfer the case to the civil court having
jurisdiction and the civil court shall thereupon proczed to
hear and determine it as if it were a suit for arrears and
ejectment instituted in such Court.
(5) The rejection of an application under sub-secticn
(3) shall not preclude the applicant from filing a suit forrecovery of arrears of rent.
98. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code
Execution by
ejectment, in of Civil Prwedure. 1908, a decree or order for the payment
default of of arrears of rent against an Asami may, in addition to any
payment
other mode of execution, be executed in default of payment
of the amount decreed by ejectment of the Asami from the
hdding :
F'rovided that no order for delivery of possession shall
be passed unless notice has been served upon the judgmentdebtor to show cause on a date to be fixed why the order
be not passed.
(2) If within one month after the delivery of possession
the tenant deposits the full amount in respect of which he
has been ejected, the ejectment order shall be cancelled and
possession restored forthwith to the tenant.

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954

101

Rent (AsamrWeneral)
99. An Asami shall, from the date rent becomes due, Interest on
of
be liable to pay interest at 62 per .cent. per annum on any
instalment remaining unpaid.
rent.
100. Arrear of rent due in respect of property vesting Recovery of
in the Government or in respect of area attached for arrears arrear of
of land revenue may be recovered as arrear of land revenue.
of
(Chapter ZZZ-1.

zie$
property.

101. (1) I t shall be lawful for the Court hearing 2 suit Remiss:orr
for recovery of arrears d rent, where it is satisfied that the for cabarea of the holding was substantially decreased by diluvian
or otherwise, or the produce thereof was substantially dimi- decreeing
nished by drought, hail, deposit of sand or other calamity claim for
during the perio'd for which the arrear is claimed, to allow arrears.
such remission from the rent as may appear to it to be just:

Provided that no such remissioa shall be deemed to
vary the rent payable by the Asami otherwise than for the
period in respect of whjqh it is made.
(2) Where a Court allows remission under sub-section

(11, the Chief C~rnmis~sioner
or any authority empowzredl by

him in this behalf shall order consequential remissions in the
land revenue in accmdance with such principles as may be
prescribed.

General
182. Any person to whom any sum is due on aowunl Suit for
dues under section 47 of the Northern Tndi3 ar-rs of

0 4 irrigation

Canal and Drainage Act, 1873, may sue for the recovery of ~ ~ ~ t l O n
such sum.
103. Any tree existing on the boundary of the holding Vesting of
of a tenant on the commencement of this Act and not be- ~~~~~~~,
longing to such tenant shall with effect from the commence- dary of the
ment of this Ant belong to and vest in the Bhumidhars cvf holding of a!
the holding adjoining the said boundary in equal shares. tenant.

Explanation.-Where the holding belongs jointly to two
or more Bhumidhars, all of them shall for the purposes
of this section collectively count as one.
104. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in s e o Declaratory
tion 42 of the Specific Relief Act, 1877, the Gaon Sabha suit.
may institute a suit against any person claiming to be entitled to any right in any land for the declaration d the right
of such person in such land, and the Court in its discretion
may make a declaration of the '[right of such persons :I,

Provided that no Court shall make any such declarat~on
where the plaintiff, being able to seek further relief than a
mere declaration of title, omits to d o so.
*Subs. by s. 15 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956; for the words "right of such person, and
the Gaon Sabha need not in such suit ask for any further relief'.

11.02

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter ZV-Land

Revenue)

105. The Chief Commissioner may make 'rules fcr the
Power to
make rules. purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Chapter.
CHAPTER
IV
Land Revenue
Land Revelage.

1%. (1) The aggregate of the land revenue payable by
the Bhumidhars in respect of land situate in any village
be deemed to be the land revenue assessed on that
village.
(2) The land revenue assessed on any village shall be
the first charge on all land in the entire village and on the
rents, profits or produce thereof.

Land held
107. (1) All land held by a Bhumidhar as such and
by Bhumidhars liable wherever situate is liable to the payment of land revenue to
to payment the Government, except such land as may be exempted
wholly or partially from such liability under the provisions
of land
revenue.
of section 122 or under any law for the time being in force.

(2) Land revenue may be assessed on land notwithstanding that such land revenue, by reason of its having been assigned, released, compounded for or redeemed. is not payable to the Government.
(3) No length of cccupation of any land nor any grant
made before the commencement of this Act by the Government or the landholder shall release such land from the liability to pay and revenue.

108. (1) All Bhurnidhars in any village shall be jointly
Liability of
the Bhumi- and severaly responsible to the Government for the payment
dhars
of the land revenue for the time being assessed thereon, and
payment of
land reve- $a persons succeeding whether by devolution or otherwiqe,
nue assessthe interests of such Bhumidhars shall be responsible for
ed on the
a!1 arrears of land revenue due at the time of their scccesvillage.
slan.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisicms of sub-section (1) a
Bhurnidhar shall not be compelled to pay any arrear of land
revenue other than an arrear in respect of his holding to
which he is wholly or in part entitled, unless the Chief Cornmissioner has, by notification in the official Gazette, declared that the provisions of sub-section (1) shall apply :a any
specific area.
Amount of
109. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, every
land revenue
payab1e.b~ person, who is a Bhumidhar, shall be liable to pay to the
a BhumlGovernment far land, held by him as such, on account of
dhar.

land revenue(a) if he is declared a Bhumidhar under section 11,
the amount of land revenue, cesses and local rates as
given in that section;

'For the Delhi Land Reforms Rules, 1954, see Notificat~onNo. F. 3(16)/54-GA&R,
dated the 11th November, 1954 Delhi State Gazette, Part V, dated 20-1-1955, p. 27.

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter IV-Land

103

Revenue)

(b) if he becomes a Bhumidhar under section 13,
the amount of land revenue, cesses and local rates as
given in section 14;
(c) if he is declared a Bhumidhar under sub-section (4) of section 74, the amount d land revenue, cesjes
and local rates as given in that section.

(2) The payment of land revenue, cesses and local rates

! b shall take effect from the commencement of this Act except
in cases of admission or acquisitions of Bhumidhari rights
after the commencement of this Act, in which case, it shall
take effect from the date of admission or acquisition.

110. (1) The Chief Commissioner may prescribe the Dates and
date or dates from which and the instalments in which the lnstalrnents
land revenue shall bs payable by Bhumidhars referred to
in section 109.
nue under

2 1 ~ ~ ~

(2) The land revenue or any instalment therecf not paid
on or before the due date becomes an arrear of land revenue
and the persons liable for it become defaulters.

section 109.

111. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Variation in
Act, the land revenue payable by a Bhumidhar shall not be ~
~ ~
varied until the next settlement, except on the ground of in- Bhumidhar.
crease or decrease in the area of his holding or in the productivity of the land comprised therein by fluvial' action or
other natural causes :
Provided that the Chief Conlmissioner may at any time,
by a noltification in the official Gazette, direct that any urban
area that may have developed in any part of the State be
taken out of the s c o p of the revenue settlement for levy
of special urban rates in place of land revenue.

(2) Whenever the land revenue is enhanced or abated
under sub-section (I), the Chief Commissioner may order
the enhancement or abatement of the rent payable by an
Asami in occupation of such land.
112. The Chief Commissioner may, at any time after First settlethe commencement of this Act, direct a settlement (herein- ment of Ian6
after referred to as first settlement) of the land revenue of ~ V ~ n u e .
the whole or part of the State.
113. The Chief Commissioner may, at any time after a Revision
period of thirty years from the first settlement, direct a fresh settlement of
settlement (hereinafter referred to as revision settlement) of
land revenue of the whole or part of the State:
Provided that no enhancement of revenue shall t%ke
effect before the expiration of the settlement for the timz being in force.

-:,",:

114. As soon as may be after the Chief Commissioner Notification
as to settlehas decided that the: whole or part of the State should be
brought under a fresh settlement, he shall so notify in the tions.

a

~

"

-

--

--

*
804

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter IV-Land Revenue)
ofXcial Gazette and thereupon the whole or part of the State
shall be held to be undm settlement, until a notification declaring settlement operations thereto be closed is publlshed.

115. The Chid Coinmissioner shall appoint a Settlement Officer to be incharge of the settlement of the State
tor part thereof and as many Assistant Settlement Officers
as he may deem fit and such officers shall, during the settlement operations, exercise the powers conferred upon them
by this Act.
Transfer of
duties

,,ion,

-

to
.Settlement
'Officer.

116. Where the State or any part thereof is under scttlement, the Chief Commissioner may, by a notification ~n
the official Gazette, transfer to the Settlement Officer the
duty d maintaining the maps and the field books and preparing the annual register and the Settlement Officer shall
thereupon possess all the powers conferred on the Jk~ruty
Commissioner under Chapter 111 of the U.P. Land Revenue
Act. 1901, or the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887, as the
case may be.

Term of
117. A settlement shall remain in force for a period of
:Settlement. thirty years

Provided that in the case of any precarious tracts or
alluvial areas the Chief Commissioner may direct that t!ie
settlement shall, for such tracts or areas as may be specified.
remain in force for any period less than thirty years :
Provided further that when in the opinion d the Chief

! Commissioner a revision settlement is inexpedient or when
. J*

such settlement has for any cause been delayed, the Chief
Commissioner may extend the term of the settlement for
the time being in force by such period as he deems fit.

Settlement by
118. Where the period of settlement fixed in the case
Deputy
of any precarious tract or alluvial area is less than 30 years
Commisand such period expires or is about to expire, the Deputy
sioner 1n
precarious

Commissioner shall assess and settle such tracts and areas

tracts or
in such manner as may be prescribed.
alluvial
areas
Deputy
119. (1) For the purposes of making settlements or reCOmmisvising
assessments under stxtion 118 the Deputy Commissioner to
exercise the sioner shall have all the powers o£ a Settlement m c e r .
powers of
(2) No settlement, revision of assessment made under
Settlement
officeurder secticm 118 or suspension of revenue made under section 127
Section 118. shall be final until it has been sanctioned by the Chief C'onl-

missioner.
Procedure
to be adop-

m,~.

120. When the State or a part thereof has been brought
under settlement, the Settlement Officer or an Assistant Seitlement m c e r shall inspect every village under settlement

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954

3

(Chapter IV--Ld
Revenue)
and shall, in such manner and on such principles as may be
prescribed, divide the State or the part into soil classes and
assessment circles.

i

121. The Settlement Officer shall enquire into the case Assessment
of all lands released conditionally or for a term from the of revenues
payment of land revenue, and shall assess such lands if ~t
appears to him that the conditions have been transgrssszd in certain
cases.
or the term has expired.

~~~~~

122. (1) Any person claiming land free of revenue not Title to hold
recorded as revenue-free shall be bound to prove his title to revenue.
land free of
hold such land free of revenue.

I

(2) If he proves his title to the satisfaction of the Scttlement Officer, the case shall be reported to the Chief Commissioner whose orders shall be final.
(3) If the title is not so proved, the Settlement O6cer
shall proceed to assess the land and to make the settlement
.of it with the pzrsons entitled to the land.
t

123. The land which shall ordinarily be assessed to Land reveland revenue shall, except as hereinafter excepted, be the nue to be
aggregate holdings area of Bhumidhars in a village in the
year of record.
gate hold-

-

Exceptions :

ings area
in a village.

(1) lands occupied by buildings which are not j1-nprovements ;

II

(2) all lands of common utility such as customary
common pasture lands, cremation or burial grounds,
abadi sites and pathways etc., that are vested in Gaon
Sabha under section 7; and

(3) such other lands as may be prescribed.
124. (1) In assessing the land revenue payable for a Principles of
holding in an assessment circle, the Settlement Oacer shall assassment.
consider the estimated average surplus produce of such holding remaining after deducting the ordinary expenses of cultivation as ascertained or estimated in such manner as may
be prescribed. The land revenue shall be such percentage
d the surplus produce as may be fixed by the Chid C m missioner m the remmendations of the Settlement Weer.

'i****I

(2) The percentage of land revenue to the surplus produce shall vary according to a graduated scale prescribed
by the Chief Commissioner being largest on holdings with
the highest surplus produce and smallest on holdings with
lowest surplus produce.
'Rep. by A.O. 1957.

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954

106

Assessment
125. The Settlement O'fficer shall publish his proposals
proposats- in such manner as may be prescribed as soon as he has com-

pleted the assessment of each village. He shall consider objectiolns, if any, that may be preferred and shall then submit the'prop~sals together with the objections, if m y and
such orders as he may have passed to the prescribed aathority, who shall forward them to the Chief Commissioner with
his cqiments.

,lv.

After considering the proposals and the comments
Orders c?f
the Chief
of the ,prescribed authority, the Chief Commissioner shal!
Comrnlspass sdch orders as he deems fit. The orders of the Chief
sioner on
Commissioner shall not be called in question in any Court.
the
assessment
proposals.
Remlsslpn or
127. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act
suspens'on the Chief Commissioner may, on the occurrence cf an agri,,d cultural calamity affecting the crops of any village or part
rent foiiow- thereof, remit or suspend for any period the whble or any
In_e an
part of the land revenue of any holding affected by such
agrlc~ltural calamity.
ca1arn;iy.

$,kkd,

(2) Whenever the Chief Commissioner takes actiora,
under sub-section (1) he may remit or suspend the lvhale
or 22y part d the rent payable by an Asami in occupation
of suc:~ land.
(3) Where the payment of rent has been suspended
under sub-section (2), the period of suspension shall be
zxcluded in computing limitation allowed for a suit for the
recovery of rent.

Order under
128. An order passed under section 127 shall not besection 127 questioned in a civil or revenue court, and no suit or applito be
cation shall lie f m the recovery of any sum the payment of
questioned
,, Court. which has been remitted under section 127, or, during the.

period of suspension, of any sum the payment of which has
been 'suspended under the said section.

Revision of
settlement
on account
of decline
in prices
of agriculturd produce.

129. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or
in any other enactment for the time being in force, the Chief
cmmissioner, if he is satisfied that there has been a sub-.
stantial decline in the price of agricultural produce which
is likely to continue for sometime, may, by a notification in
the official Gazette, direct a revision of settlement in any
area.
'

130. After the issue of notification under sectioa 129,
Appointment
of officer the Chief Commissioner may appoint i c such area any cfficer
for
ment nnder with the powers of a Settlement Officer subject to such ressection 129. trictions and conditions as he may think fit but not so as

to enable him to enhance the land revenue thereof.
Annual
131. The Deputy Commissioner shall enquire annually
enquiry into into the case of all lands released conditionally or for arevaue
term from the payment of land revenue.
grant,

The Ddhi Land Refmms Act, 1954

107

(Chapter ZV-CoEr2ection of Lmd Revenue)
If the condition is broken, he shall report the case to
the Chief Commissioner for orders; and if the period has
expired or if the grantee, where the grant is for the life of
the grantee, has died, he shall assess the land and report his
proceedings to the Chief Commissioner for sanction.
Collection aj Land Revenue

i 1
,

132. The Chief Commissioner may make such arrange- Arranm
ments and employ such agency for the corlection of land men&
for
collecting
revenue as he may deem fit.
land revenue.
133. ( 1 ) The Chief Commissioner may by general or Collection
special order published in the Official Gazette charge the of land
Gaon Sabha constituted under section 150 of this Act with ~ ~ ~ ~ a ~ { a *
the duty d collecting and realizing the land revenue and
such other dues as may be prescribed, for and on behalf of
the Government, in the area for which the G a m Sabha
is established or any part thereof.
(2) Whgm the Gaon Sabha has been so charged, it shall
be the duty of the Gaon Panchayat concerned to collect and
realize, in accordance with the provisions of this Act or
the rules made thereunder, Pilie land revenue. and the dues
aforesaid payable to the Government from tlme to time in
respect d the land comprised in its area.

I

,

134. Where a Gaon Sabha has been charged with the Consequence
duty of collecting and realizing the land revenue or other of collection
dues under section 133 the following consequences will folby
l08w :Gaon Sabha.
(a) every Bhumidhar shall, without prejudice to
the provisions of section 108, be liable to the Gaon
Panchayat for the payment of the land revenue or other
dues for the time being payable by the Bhumidhars,
(b) the amount d land revenue or other dues collected or realized by any member (including Pradhan
or Uppradhan) of the Gam Panchayat or any member of the Gaon Sabha and not paid to the Government
may, without prejudice to his liability under any other
law for the timc being in force, be realized as arrears
of land revenue from him or his property in the hands
of his legal representatives, and
(c) the Gaon Panchayat shall be paid a remuneration at such rate as may be prescribed on the collections
made by it after the amount of land revenue or other
dues collected have been credited to the prescribed fund.

135. A statement of account certified by the Tahsildar Certified
shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, be conclmive evi- ;p&WgJg
h c e of the existence of the arrears of land revenue or its t,
amount and of the person who is the defaulter:
rears of

,,

land revenue.
8-1

belhi Admn.170

--

108

The Delhi Land ReformsAct, 1954
(Chapter IV--Collection of Land Revenue)
Provided that in any village in respect d which an
order under section 133 has been made, such statement,
may, in respect of any individual defaulter, be certified by
the Gaon Panchayat.

I

r'

136. n arrear of land revenue may be recovered by
Procedure for
the recovery any onq o ;more of the following prwesses :of an arrear
of land
(a) by serving a writ of demand or a citation to aprevenue.
pear on any defaulter.

1

(b) by arrest and detention of his person.
(c) by attachment and sale of his moveable property
including produce,
(d) by attachment of the holding in respect oi
which the arrear is due.
(e) by sale of the holding in respect of which the
arrear is due, or

(f) by attachment and sale of
property of the defaulter.

other immovable

137. (1) As soon as arrear of land revenue has become
Writ of
demand and due a writ of demand may be issued by the Tahsildar on
citation to the defaulter calling upon him to appear and deposit the

arrear due on a date to be specified.

appear-

(2) In addition to or in lieu of a writ of demand the
Tahsildar may issue a citation against the defaulter to appear and deposit the arrear due on a date to be specified.
(3) Where a Gaoa Sabha has k e n charged with the
duty of , c \letting and realizing land revenue under secliun
133, the ghief Commissioner may authorise a Gaon Panchayat, by!a general or special order published in the official
Gazette, to issue a writ of demand or a citation to appear
on any defaulter under clause (a) d section 136, but for action under any other clause of section 136, the Gaon Sabha
shall report to Tahsildar for necessary action.

\

Arrest and
detention.

'

138. Any person who had defaulted in the payment of
an arrear of land revenue may be arrested and detained in
custody up to a period not exceeding 15 days unless the
arrear with costs, if any, of the arrest and detention are
sooner paid:

Provided that no woman or minor shall be liable to
arrest or detention under this section :

*

I[*

139. (1) The Dzputy Commissioner may, whether the
A&hmmt
md sale of defaulter has been arrested or not, attach and sell his movmovable
able property.

p
r
o
m
.
lornitted by sec. 22 ?f Central Act 38 of 1965.

.,.

.?-

-...-.--.-

-----

-

-

.,"T

I

T k Dethr' Land Reforms Act. 1954

109

(Chapter IV--Collection of Land Revenue)
(2) Every attachment and sale under this section shall
be made according to the law in force for the time being for
the attachment and sale of movable property in execution
o£ a decree of a civil court.

(3) In addition to the particulars mentioned in G-1B U S ~ S
(a) to (0)of the proviso to section 60 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908, articles set apart exclusively for the use
igious worship shsll be exempted from attachment and
alerelunder this section.
(4) The costs of attachment and shall be added to the
arrear of land revenue and shall be recoverable in the same
manner.

qf

140. ( 1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this sale of
Act, where the land revenue payable in respzct of a holding holding for
is in arrear, the Deputy Commissioner may, either of his ~~~~0~
own motion or on the application of the Gaon Panchayat, land resell the holding in such manner as may be prescribed and venue and
utilize the proceeds in satisfaction of the arrear and refund a~plicauon
of
$he excess, if any to the Bhumidhar.
~roceecfs

(2) The Deputy Commissioner shall report to the pres- iherwfcribed authority any sale made under this section.

(3) Where any holding is sold under the provisions of
this section, the proceeds thereof shall be utilized first in
defraying the expenses of the sale and secondly in discharging the amount due as arrear of land revenue and the balance
shall be payable to the person entitled.
141. (1) If any arrear of land rzvenue cannot 'be re- Powers of
covered by any of the processes mentioned in clauses (a) to proceed
+) of section 136, the Deputy Commissioner may realize the
kame from the interest of defaulter in any other immovable deraulkr in
property of the defaulter as if the said arrears were arrears other immodf land revenue assessed on and due in respect of such other vable Proproperty.
perty.

::yi

(2) Suins of money recoverable as arrears of land revenue, but not d u e in respezt d a specific land, may be recovered under this section from any immovable property
of the defaulter.

142. A Bhumidhar or a person appointed under section Recovery of
432 or a member of a Gaon Panchayat, who has paid the arrears paid
arrear of land revenue due on acmunt of any other Bhumi- ~
p
~
dhar may. in addition to any other mode of recovery open under seeto him, within six months of the payment of such amount, tion 132.
apply to t$e Deputy Commissioner to recover such arrear
on his behalf as if it were an arrear of land revenue payable to Government.
The Deputy Colmmissioner shall on receipt of such application satisfy himself that the amount claimed is due to
such a person and may then proceed to recover, as if it were

i

n

~

~

The Delhi Land Rt?forrnsAct, 1954

1

(Chapter IV-CoIIection af Land Revenue).

1

an arrear of land revenue, such amount with costs and interest from the said Bhumidhar or any person in possession
sf his tenure.
7

The Deputy Commissioner shall not be a defendant to
suit in respect of the amount for the recovery of which
n order has been passed underthis section.

I

No appeal shall lie against the order of the Deputy Conlmissioner under this section, but nothing contained therein
and no order passed under this section shall debar the
Bhumidhar from maintaining a suit for arrear of i;md revenue.

I

Provisions
143. The provisions of this Act with regard ta the reapplied to covery of arrear d land revenue shall apply to all arrears
arrear
due of land revenue and sums of money recoverable as arrear
at commencement of ~f and revenue due at the commencement of this Act.
Act.
Attachment
144. (1) At any time after an arrear of land revenue
of village
has accrued, the Deputy Commissioner may attach the viland direct lage or any area therein in respect of which the arrear is
management
by Deputy due and place it under his own management m that of an
Commisagent appointed by him for that purpose for sucn period
sloner.
as he may consider necessary :

Provided that the period: for which any village or
zny area therein may be so attached shall not exceed three
years from the commencement of the agricultural year next
following the date of attachment and the attachmeot shall
be cancelled, if the arrezrs are s m e r liquidated.
(2) Upon the expiry of the period of attachment, the
village shall be restored free of any claim on the part of
the Government for any arrear of land revenue due in respect thereof.
Powers and
the

Enr&sloner in
respect '

145. While an area is so held by the Deputy Commissloner under his own management, he shall be bound by
any engagement which at the time of attachment existed
between the defaulter and the Asamis and shall be entitled
to manage the property so held and to receive all rents and
profits accruing therefrom. The collections so made from
the property shall be applied to the payment1 of any instalment of land revenue which may becme due after attachment and the cost of attachment and management, and the
surplus, if any, shall be applied towards discharge of the
anears aa a c m t of which the attachment is made.

s?:zea

manag-

ement.

Powers of
Deputy
"mmissloner':
to let out
the holding
in respect

146. (1) Where an arrear of land revenue is due in
.respect of a holding the Deputy Commissioner may, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act. let out the holding
ir7 any person other than the defaulter for a period not exceeding ten years commencing from the first day of July
next following; upon such terms and conditions as the Chief

k

1

I.
1

l
;

I

,

)I

a

I

I
I

1I
I

T k Delhi Land Aefttrm Act, 1954
(Chapter IV-CoUection of Land Revewe-Chapfer
Gaon Sobha md Gaon Prmchayat)

V-

section 88.

" 42) Nothing in this section shall affect the liability of
any tenure-holders who may be liable under this Act fm the
payment of the arrear of land revenue.
(3) Upon the expiry of the period of lease the holding
shall be restored to the tame-holder concerned free of any
claim on the part of the Government for any arrears in respect of such holding.

148. The provisions of Chapters V, VI and VII of the Provisions
Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887, as amended by this Act,
shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the; provi- ~~~d Revesions of this Act, apply to applications and proceedings made nue ~ c t ,
1887, Chapor taken under this Chapter.

iLi:&

ters V, VI
and VII, as

I

CHAPTER V
Gmn Sabha and Gaon Panchayat
150. (1) The Chief Commissioner may by notification Establishin the official gazette divide the entire area of the State into ment and
G a m Sabha areas each comprising one or more contiguous IncflrpO'
reveme villages for the purposes of this Act and may by g n
notification alter the boundaries of any area so norified: and Gaon
"Provided that such areas shall not include any area to Sabha Area.
which the B l h i Panchayat Raj Act, 1954, does not extend.]

(2) There shall be established for each Gaon Sabha
Area and from such date or dates and by such name as may
be prescribed, a Gaon having perpetual succession which
shaq, be a body corporate and subject to any other enact'?or the Delhi Land Reforms Rules 1954, see Notification No. F. 3(16)/54-GA&R,
ated the 11th November, 1954; D e l h ~ State Gazette, Part V, dated 20-1-1955, p. 27.
*Subs. by s. E5 of Central Act 4 of 1959, for "original proviro."

1

112

i

i.

I

1

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(Chapter V-Gaon

I

Snbha and G m n ~ a n c h a i a t )

ment vested with the capacity of suing and being sued in its
corporate name of acquiring, holding, administering and
transferring property, both movable and immovable, and
of entering into contracts.

'[(3) If the whole of a Gaon Sabha area ceases to be
included in rural areas as defined in the Delhi Municipal
Corporation Act, 1957, by virtue of a notification under
section 507 of that Act, the Gaon Sabha constituted for that
area shall thereupon stand dissolved and on such dissolution,-

I

(a) all properties, movable and immovable, and all
interests of whatsoever nature and kind therein including moneys held in Gaon Sabha Area Fund, vested
in the Gaon Sabha immediately before such dissolution.
shall, with all rights of whatsoever description, used,
enjoyed or possessed by such Gaon Sabha, vest in the
Central Government;
(b) all duties, obligations and liabilities incurred,
all contracts entered into and all matters and thingsengaged to be done by, with or for the Gaon Sab!:a
before such dissolution shall be d e e m ~ dto have been
insnlrred, entered into or engaged to be done with or
for the Central Government;
(c) all rates, taxes, cesses, fees. rcnts and other
charges due to the Gaon Sabha i5~mesliateIybefore such
dissoluticn shall be deemed to be ?ue to the C ~ n t r a l
Government;
(d) all suits, prosecutions and other lega! groceedings instituted or which might have been instituted by
w against the Gaon Sabha may be continued or insrituted by or against the Union of India;

(e) the provisions of this Act shall apply in relation to lands in such Gaon Sabha area, not being lands
vested in the Central Government
clause (a), subject to the modification that references therein to Gaon
Sabha and Gaon Panchayat shall bz construed as references to the Central Government;
(f) notwithstanding anything contained in clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 1, the provisions of
sections 84, 85, 86, 86A and 87 and any other provision of this Act relating to ejectment oC persons shall apply in relation to lands vested in the Central Government under clause (a) subject to the modification that
references therein to Gaon Sabha and G a w Panchayat
shall be construed as references to the Central Govunment .
'Ins. by s. 23 of Central Act 38 of 1965 (w.e.f. 7-4-1958).

.

~

The Dehi Land Reforms Act, 1954

113

(Chapter V - 4 a o n S a b h and Gmn Pmhayat)

(4) If only a prtion of a Gaon Sabha area ceases to
be included in rural areas as aforesaid the jurisdiction of
the Gaon Sabha constituted for that area shall cease in
respect of that portion and upon such cesser, the provisions
of clause (a) to (f) d sub-section (3) shall apply to that portion as if the Gaon Sabha had been constituted for that
portion alone and dissolved, subject to such incidental and
consequential orders as the Chief Commissioner may deem
necessary to make.

(5) If the size of a Gaon Sabha is reduced as a result
of a prtion thereof ceasing to be included in rural areas
as aforesaid and the Chief Commissioner is of the opinion
that the size of the Gaon Sabha area is not sufficiently
large to be under the jurisdiction of a separate Gaon Sabha,
he may. by notification in the OfEcial Gazette, declare that
such Gaon Sabha area shall, from a date to be specified in
the notification, cease to be a separate Gaon Sabha area
and the Gaon Sabha constituted there for shall stand dissblved and may direct that the said area shall be included
in one or more adjoining Gaon Sabha areas. and thereupon
the provisions of section 3 of the Delhi Panchayat Raj Act,
$954, shall, so far as may be, apply.]

blc

3 of 1955.

'[151. (1) All persons registered by virtue of the pro- Membership
visicns of the Constitution and the Representation of the ~
~
People Act, 1950, as voters in so much of the electoral roll Constitution
for any parliamentary ccnstituency for the time being in of Gaon
forre as relates to a Gaon Sabha Area shall be the nlem- Pancha~aL
t'uers of the Gaon Sabha for that area.
Exp1mmtion.-In this sub-section, the expression "Parliamentary constituency" has the meaning assigned to it
under the Representation of tle People Act, 1950.
(2) Every Gaon Sabha shall have an executive body to
be known as the Gaon Panchayat.
(3) A Gaon Panchayat shall consist of a Pradhan and
such number d panches, not less than four and not nor$
than ten, as the Chief Commissioner may fix from time to
time in this behalf.
'

(4) The Pradhan and the panches shall be elected by
the members of the Gam Sabha from among themselves.
(5) The Chief Commissioner shall, by order in the Official Gazette, determine the number of seats, if any. reserved for women and the Scheduled Castes in each Gaon
Panchayat :

Provided that the number of seats so reserved for the
Scheduled Castes shall bear as nearly as may be the same
proportion to the total number of seats in the Gaon Panchayat as the population of the Scheduled Castes in the
'area d the Gaon Sabha bears to the total population of
such area3

-

%bs-

by s. 16 of CcntraI Act 4 of 1959, for "original section".

-

~

~

T'e Ddhi h

d Rei#~rm
Adv 1954

(Chapter V - G a Stzbha md Gmn Panchayat)
Up-Pradhan
15% The Chid Commissioner shall arrange for the
e
l
d
o n of the U p h d h a n by the members of the Gaon
and
office
bearers
.Pz,n&ayat f r m amongst themselves and for the appintof Gaon
men1 a£ such other officers or office bearers d the Gaon
Panchayat. Panchayat as may be prescribed.
No person shdl be entitled to be or remain a memDisqualification for
k r of the G m Panchayat, if hemembership '
of the
1
(a) '[ceases to be a member of the Gaon Sabha
Goan
Panchayat.
4
(b) is suffering from leprosy; or

4,.

(c) is an undischarged insolvent; or
(d) is a servant of the Government; or
(e) is convicted of an &Fence involving moral turpitude or ordered to give security far good behavjour
under section 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1 898 :
Prolrided that the disqualifications under clause
(c) or (e} may be removed by an order of the Chief
Commissioner or the prescribed authority.

I

vesting of
certain
lands etc.

in Grcon
Sabha.

154. '[(l)] On the commencement of this Act-

'

(i) an lands whether cultivable or otherwise, exoept land for the time k i n g comprised in any holding
or grove,
(ii) all trees (other than trees in a holding or on the
boundary thereof or in a grove or abadi) 3[olr planted
by a p e r m other than a proprietor on land other than
land comprised in his holding],
(iii} public wells,
(iv) fisheries,
(v) hats, bazars and melas, except hats, bazars and
mehs hekl on land to which provisioas .of clauses (a)
to (c)of sub-section (1) of section 11 apply,
(vi) tanks, ponds, water channels, pathways and
abadi sites,
(vii) forests, if any.
situate in a Gaon Sabha Area, shall v e t in the Gaon Sabha:
Provided that if the uncultivated area situate in any
Gam Sabha area is, in the opinion of the Chief Commissioner, mole than the ordinary requirements of the Gaon
Wha, he may exclude any portion of the ancultivated area
from vesting in the Gaon Sabha under this section and may
make such incidental and consequential orders as may be
necessary.

'Subs. hy s. 14 of the Central Act 4 of 1959, for the word "is of unsound mind".
ZRe-numberedand Ins, by s. 24 of Central Act 38 of 1965 (w.e.f. 7-4-1958).
'Ins. by s. 16 of Delhl Act 16 of 1956.

k

1

115

The ;D&i Land Reforms Act, 1954

('chapter V-Gaon Sizbfra and Gaon Panchayat)

'[(g Where any land which is vested in the Central
Government under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4) d section 130, is held immediately bejore such vesting by anp
Asami .of a Gaon Sabha, then, notwithstanding anything
contain#d in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 1, and
so long as it is held by suih Asami, the provisions of this
Act shall continue to apply to such land subject to the modification that all references therein to Gaon Sabha and Gacm
Panchayat shall in relation to Gaon Sabha and Gaon Panchapat shall in relation to such land be construed as references:t@the Central Government.1

,

i

155. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Gaon SuperintenSatiha shall, from the date, this Act comes into force, be dence,
charged with the general superintendence. management and ~
$
~
control of all lands, trees (other than trees in a holding, grove of land, etc.
or abadi :[or planted by a person other than a proprietor by the Gaon
m land other than land comprised in his holding]), public Sabha, or
wells, fisheries, tanks, ponds, water channels pathways.
abadi sites, and hats, bazars, melas, and forest. I£ any. Board
vested in the Gam Sabha under section 154.
other au-

b~?:

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this dnd the
fixegoling section, the Chief Commissioner, may, at any time,
by notification in the official Gazette declare that as from
'the date to be specified hats, bazars, melas, and water channels, hereinbefore vested in the Gaon Sabha, shall be trans%exred to and be vested in the D i s t ~ c tBoard or any other
authorit3 as may be specified, who shall thereupon, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, be charged with'
the management, superintendence and control thereof in
axard&-ce with the law as may be .applicable for the time
being in force.

-

thorities.

156. Without prejudice to the generality of the provi- Duties of
sions contained in sections 154 and 155, the functions and Gaon Panchayats.
duties of Gaan Panchaya~shall includek

(a) the development and improvement of agriculture and hmticultare,
(b) the preservation, maintenance and development
of forest and trees,
(c) the maintenance and development of abadi sites
and village communications,

I

(d) the management of hats, bazars and melas.
(e) the development of co-operative farming,

I,
-

) ( f ) the development d animal husbandry, which
includes pisciculture and poultry farming, and the develophent of piggery,
(g) the consolidation of holdings.
'Ins. by s. 24 of Central Act 38 of 1965 (w.e.f. 7-4-1958).
?ns. by s. 17 of Delhi Act 16 of 1956.
II'

~

~

'

~

t

The DeEhi Land Reforms Act, 1954

116

1

(i) the maintenance and development of
wells and tanks, and

I

I

(Chapter V-Gaon Stabha and Gaon Panehayat)
(h) the development of cottage industries;
fisheries,

(j) such other matters as may be prescribed.
'

Term and
other matters about
the Gaon
Panchayat.

157. The term of the Gaon Panchayat, the method of filling up casual vacancies, the procedure of its working and
the conduct of its business shall be such as may be prescrib-

q.

158. There shall be crcdited to the Gaon Sabha Area
Money received
Fundby Gaon
Sabha or
(1) all sums received by the Gaon Sabha or the
Gaon
Gaon Panchayat under this Act whether on its m
chayat unbehalf or for and on behalf d all the adult membep
der this
Act to be
of the Gaon Sabha Area, and
credited to
the Gaon
(2) such other sums as may be prescribed.
Sabha Area
Fund.
159. Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for
Gaon Sabha
Area Fund the time being in fonce, the Gaon Panchayat may utilize, in
to be
the manner prescribed. the Gaon Sabha Area Fund to meet
lised in
connection the charges in connection with the discharge of its duties
with this
cr prformance of its functions under this Act ar rules made
~ct.
thereunder :
Provided that nothing in this section or in any law for
the timz being in force, shall m a n or be construed to mean
as authorising the G a ~ nSabha to so utilize any sums, collected or realised for and on behalf of the Government, except as specifically provided in this Act.
Gaon Sabha '
1g0. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any
or the Gaon law for the time being in force, the Chief Commissio~ermay
Panchayat
issue such orders and directions to the Gaon Sabha or the
to carry
out orders Gaon Panchayat as may appear to be necessary for purand direc- poses of this Act.
tions of
the Govern(2) It shall be the duty of the Gaon Sabha or the Gaon
ment.
Panchayat and its office bearers to forthwith carry out such

o r d y and comply with such directions.
161. (1) If at the commencement of this Act, the Chief
Alternative
arrangement Commissioner finds that there is an unavoidable delay in
for cawing bringing the provisions of thi?. Chapter into operatioa or

zrLhtfif at any time the Chief Commssioner is satisfied thatthe Gaon
Sabha or
the Gaon
Panchayat
in certain
clrcu,stances.

(a) a Gaon Sabha or a Gaon Panchayat has failed
without reasonable cause or excuse to discharge the
, duties or to perform the functions imposed or assigned by or under this Act.

-'

I

117

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
:

(Chapter V--Gmn Sobha and Gaon Pmtchayat)

(b) circumstances have so arisen that a Gaon Sabha
or a Gaon Panchayat is rendered unable or may be
rendered unable to discharge the duties or perform the
functions imposed or assigned by or under this Act, or

1'
,

~(c)it is otherwise expedient or necessary so to do,
he may, by notification in the official Gazette, declare
that the duties, powers and functions of the Gaon Sabha
or the Gaon Panchayat under this Act shall be discharged, exercised and performed by such person or authority of a rank not inferior to that of Deputy Cmmissioner and for such period 2nd subject to such restrictions as may be specified.
(2) The Chief Commissioner may make such incidental
and consequential provisions as may appear to be necessary
for this purpose.
*[161A. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code Government

India
of 1908. d Civil Procedure, 1908, or any other law for the time be- of
t o be iming in force :pleaded

Delhi

Act 3 of
1955.

ii~ip

(a) no suit or other proceedings under sub-section
(2) of section 36 of the Delhi Panchayat Raj Act, 1954, or against
shall after the date of passing of the Delhi Land Re- Gaon
forms (Amendment) Act, 1965, be instituted or, as the Sabhas.
case may be, continued in any civil or revenue court
unless the Union of India has been ~ d d e das a plaintiff or defendant according as the case is by or against
the G a m Sabha;
(b) no such suit or other proceeding shall be decided on the admission by the Pradhan or any representative of the Gaon Sabha with respect to the right
title d any prson to the property in dispute, whether
made on his own motion or on the authority of a resolution of the Gaon Panchayat unless sach admission has
been authorised in writing by the Directcr d Panchayats.
Delhi or by such other officer as the Chief Commissioner
may specify in this behalf.
131-

DeM

Ad

1955.

of

161B. (1) Where in any suit or pmceeding before any Certain deCivil or revenue court filed under sub-sectica (2) of section crees and
36 of the l k h i Punchayat Raj Act, 1954, the ownership of
any land has been decided in favour of any person other aside.
than the Gaon Sabha before the date of passing of the Delhi
Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 1965, then, notwithstanding anything contained in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of
bection 1 or in any other law for the time being in force
' such decree or order shall, on an application made by the
Government of India within twelve months from that date
or within such further period as the court may, for suflicient
cause, allow, be set aside if in the revenue records ~f the
fasli year ending on the 30th June, 1954, such land was

'Ins. by s. 25 of Central Act 38 of 1965.

~:~::s

The Delhi Laid Reform Act, 1954
(Chapter VI--Cwperarive Farms)

not included in the holding uf the parson in whose favour
the decree or order was passed or hi&pmdecessm~in~interest
or was not recorded as being in the cultivation of such person
or his predecesscx-in-interest.
(2) 021 the setting aside af any decree or order in any
suit or proceeding by or against the Gaon Sabha under subsection (I), such suit or prameding; shall be tried or heard
afresh with the Union of India added as a party.]

.
Powers to
make

162. The Chief Commissioner may make 'rules for
the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this
Chapter.

Ca-operaive Farms
Pornation
'
163. Any ten or more members of a Gaon Sabha holdof co-opera- ing between them Bhumidhari rights in thirty standard acres
~ v efarm.

or mole in the area d a G a m Sabha and desiring to start
a co-operative farm may apply in writing to the Registrar
appointed under the Bombay Co-operative Societies Act,
1925, as extended to the State (hereinafter referred to as the
Registrar) for the registration thereof.

Application
164. An application for the registration of a cooperaregistra- tive farm shall be acmmplanied by extracts from the rxord
Qon.
pf rights showing the total area with the recorded numbers

of all the fields offered by each of the applicants in the
Gaon Sabha Area and shall contain such further pafticulars
as may be prescribed.
Registration

of the cof ann.

165. (1) The Registrar may, if he is satisfied after such
inquiry as may be prescribed that the application has been
duly made, register the co-operative farm under the Bombay Co-operative Societies Act, 1925, as extended to the
State and grant a certificate of registration.

(2) The Registrar shall cause a copy of the certificate
to be forwarded to the Deputy Commissioner for such action
as may be prescribed.
Land off166. When a co-operative farm has been registered
ered by
under section 165, all land in the Gaon Sabha Area offered
a
by a member, whether as Bhumidhar or by Asami, shall.
to be
transferred fdr SO long as the registration of the co~oprative farm is
to the
riot cancelled, be deemed to be transferred to and held by
farm.
the co-operative farm which shall thereupon hold such land

in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, and may.
notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, use it far
any purpose mentioned in section 22 or the development
d cottage industries.

-

'For the, Delhi Land Reforms Rules, 1954, see Notification No. F. 3(16)/54-GAB&
dated the 11th November, 1954 ; Delhi State Gazeae, Bart V, Mtl 20-1-1955, p. 27.

i

I

i

i
t

The DeIhi Land ReformsAct, 1954

I'

t

,

(Chapter VI-Cfioprative Farms)
167. Not less than two-thirds of the total number of Formation
p o n s other than those who have applied under section 163
holding Bhumidhari right in unsconomic holdings in a farm of
Gaon Sabha Area or holding between them not less than uneconomic
two-thirds of the aggregate area comprised in all un-eco- holdings.
nomic hddings in the Gaon Sabha Area may apply jointly
to the Deputy Commissioner that a co-qxrative far~nbe
established, and on such apjAication the Deputy Commissioner may, by notice, require all the Bhumidhars of the
remainder of un-economic holdings in the Gaon Sabha Area
to show cause why a co-operative farm comprised of all the
land included in un-economic holdings in the Gaon Sabha
Area be not established and constituted.

.

$:gv;

,

r
2

"

168. (1) The Deputy Commissioner shall hear the ob- Disposal
I jection
or objections of the tenure-holders who may desire
to be heard and after hearing them he shall, unless he is sd

of
obiectionr
service

satisfied that it is not in the best interests of the persons the order.
affxted, order that a co-operative farm consistin of all
1 the land comprised in the uneconomic holdings in t t e Ciaor,
Sabha Area be established.
(2) Notice of an order passed directing a co-operative
farm to be established shall be served on every person affected and shall also be proclaimed in the G a m Sabha area in
the prescribed manner.

169. Any p e r m aggrieved by an order of the Depury Appeal.
Commissioner under section 168 may appeal to the Chief
Commissioner within sixty days from the date thereof and
the order passed by the Chief Commissioner in appeal shall
be final and conclusive.
170. (1)
Deputy Commissioner shall cause a wpy Registration
of the order passed under section 168 or 169 directing that
a co-operative farm be established to be forwarded to the farm of
Registrar, who may thereupon register the farm under thn uneconoBmbay Co-operative Societies Act, 1925, as extended to micholdthe State, and if he agrees to do so, shall grant a certificate
' of registration.

~~~~i.~-

P
,

(2) The Registrar shall wuse a copy of the certificate
to be forwarded to the Deputy Commissioner for sucl~action as may be prescribed.

171. When a co-operative farm has been registered Land in
under section 170, all land comprised in the uneconomic
holdings in the Gaon Sabha Area held by any Bhumiaar ioes to be
or an Asami under him shal1,'for so lcmg as the registratim transferred
to the f a m
af the co-operative farm is not cancelled, be deemed to
transferred to and held by the 8s-operative farm which shall
thereupon hold such land in accordance with the provisions
of this Chapter and may, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, use it for any purpose mentioned in sation
22 or the development of cottage industries,

zFfOE

1 120
1

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(chapter VI-40-operative Farm)

eonsequences of
registration.

172. Whencs certificate of registration in respect of any
co+perative farm has been granted under section 165 or 170
the provisions of the Bombay Co-operative Societies Act.
1925, as extended to the State, shall, in so far as they are
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or rules
made thereunqqr, be applicable thereto.

I

"BP- aws of
173. EV&' application submitted under section 163 or
p?jam.
167 shall be acwmpanied with a copy of the proposed byelaws d the copperative farm and such bye-laws shall be
' f a
deemed to belthe bye-laws required to be filed under subsection (3) of $ection 9 of the Bombay Co-operative Societies
:.
Act, 1925, as &t nded to the State.

P

Land contri174. Nothidg in this Chapter shall bz construed to mean
lEthe that the interesttof a Bhumidhar in the land contributed tc
the csoperative farm by or on his behalf has ceased to vest
continue
to vest in in him,the Bhumi+)
Bhar thereof.
/

;:i~~

175. (1) No' member of a cooperative farm shall, exDisposition
of
cept as provided in sub-section (21, be entitled to make any

b$:d ~ 2disposition
;
of any land contributed by him to the farm.
farm.

(2) Every member of a cwperative farm, who is a
Bhumidhar of ary land contributed by him to the co-operative farm, may make a testamentary disposition of such l a n ~ ,
and with the permission of the co-operative farm, any other
disposition. Such permission shall not be withheld if th::
transferee is willing to join the farm.

the

%3

Cd
res
fici

176. ~ v e f member
i
of a co-operative farm shall be enRights, privileges, obli- titled to such rights and privileges, be subject to such obG-

g2;,??ff gations and liabilities, and be bound to discharge such duties
rpembers.
-1

as may be conf$red or imposed upon him by or under this
Act.

'4

-'

/

i

t

177. The 'c operative farm, shall, as from the date it
Liability on
the Farm to is constituted, b liable for the payment of all the land revepay land
nue, cesses, local rates or rent payable by the Bhumidhar or
revenue and Asami in respect of the land, held by it under section 166 or
other dues.
171.
I

?

/?&ion
embers

*

178. (1) Any person, who is a resident of the Gaon
Sabha Area where the cwperative farm is situate or who
intends to settle down in the Gaon Sabha Area ol. who
cultivates land therein, may be admitted as a member thereof upon such tkrms and conditions as may be laid down
by the farm.

,

I,

'

be
thr
wi
a
wl
hi:
ri!
*

I

I

(2) Wheq a member, whose land is held by a co-operative farm, dies, bs heirs under this Ac$ shall become members of the cosperative farm.

'For Velh
hhe 11th Nov

121

The Delhi Lrand Reforms Act, 1954
i

*!

(Chapter VI-40-operative farms. Chapter VIIMiscellaneous)
179. (1) A co-operative farm shall be entitled to such and
Concessions
facili~conmssionsand facilities as may be prescribed.
ties for
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provisim, the concessions and facilities may include(a) reduction of land revenue,
(b) reduction of or exemption from any tax on
agriculture,
(c) fr5e technical advice from experts employed
by the Government on farming and use -of mechanical
aids,
(d) financial aid and grant of subsidy and !oans
with or without interest, including loans for purchase
of agricultural machinery such as tractors, etc.,
(e) admission to land by the Gaon Sabha,
( f ) priority in irrigation from State irrigation works.
and
(g) priority in consolidation proceedings.

:t$ec:'~$y

.j

'S

,

).
B

R

Y

d

180. The Chief Commissioner may make 'rules for the Power to
purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Chapter. make rules.

I

I

CHAPTER
VIi
Misceilmteous
181. The Chief Commissioner may, by notification in zlegation
the official Gazette, delegate to any officer or authority sub- powers.
ordinate to him any of the powers conferred on the Chief
Commissioner by this Act to be exercised subject to any
restrictions and conditions as may be specified in the notification.
182. Subject to any conditions or restrictions that may Powers to
be prescribed, any &cer appointed under this Act may, for
the purposes of this Act, enter at any time u p any land to make
with such public servants as he considers necessary and make survey etc.
a survey or take measurements thereof or do any other act
which he considers to be necessary for carrying out any of
his duties under this Act.
183. Any notice or other document required or autho- Mode of
rised to be served under this Act may be .Sewed eitherservice of
notiae.
(a) by delivering it to the person on whom it is to
be served, or
(b) by leaving it at the usual or last known place
of abode of that person, or
(c) by sending it in a registered letter addressed
to that person at his usual or last known place of abode,
OT
#e

'For Delhi Land Reforms Rules 1954, see Notification No. F. 3(16)/54-GA & R, dated
11th November, 1954; Ddhi State Gazette, Part V, dated 20-1-1955, p. 27.

I,

The Delhi Land Rejmms, k t * 1954
(Chapter VIZ-Misceheous)
(d) in case of an incorporated company or body,
by delivering it or sending it in a registered letter addreped to the Secretary or other principal functionary
of the company or body at its principal o a e , or
, (e) in such other manner as may be laid down in
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.
184. All documents, statements and registers maintainIuspection
and coPles ed upder this Act or the rules framed thereunder shall be
.-r
" 1 of
documents, open to inspection during such hours and subject to such
statements cond'tions, and payment of fees, as may be prescribed, and
and regis- any &%sonshall. on payment of such, fees, be entitled to be
ters.
furni 4kd with a copy of or any portion of any such docud
"8 ,,
ment, s!atement or register.
. % ",
54
-. Cognizance
18% (1) ~ i c e as
~ tprovided by or under this Act no
P i *
1 under
Of suits, etc. court ;other than a court mentioned in column 7 of Schedule
this
contained in the Code of
Act.
r
of any suit, applica-

t

(2) Except as hereinafter provided no appeal shall lie
from an order passed under any of the proceedings mentioned in column 3 of the Schedule aforesaid.
(3) An appeal shall lie from the final order passed by
a court mentioned in column 7 in the proceedings mentioned in column 3 to the court or authority mentioned in colu~nn
8 thered.
(4) A second appeal shall lie from the final order pass-

ed in an appeal under sub-section (3) to the authority, if any,
mentioned against it in column 9 of the Schedule aforesaid.
286. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section
Procedure
when clues- 185, if in any suit or proceedings mentimed in column 3 of

~ P ~ aSchedule
~ ~ ~I, al question
e
is raised regarding the title d any

$

p a t p to the land which is the subject matter of the suit or
proc~edingand such question is directly and substantially
m is$& the Court shall, unless the question has already been
decirfeq by a competent Court,frame an issue on the ques-,
tion %,the title and submit the record to the competent civil
court f o the
~ decision of that. issue only.
9.

l$x~Ion&ion.-A plea regarding the title to the land
which is clearly untenable and intended solely to oust the
jurisdiction 05 the revenue murt shall not be deemed to raise
a question. regarding the tide ta the h d within the meaning of this section.

(2) The civil court, after refraining the issue, if necessary, shall decide such issue only and &urn the record together with its finding thereon to t h revenue
~
court which
submitted it.
(3); The revenue caurz snau rnen proceed to decide the
suit, accepting the finding d th0 civil c o u t cm the issue r e
ferred to it.
i

The Deihi Land Reforms Act, 1954
(C?aszpter VZZ-Misnelb~ovs]
(4) An appeal from a decree of a revenue mart in n
suit or proceeding in which an issue regarding title has
sixen desided by a civil court under sub-section (2) shall lie
to the civil court which having regard to the valuation d
the suit has jurisdiction to hear appeal from the Court to
which the issue of title has been referred.

"87.
The Ckief Commissioner may call for the record Power of
of any suit or proceeding referred to in Schedule I decided
by any su5wdinate court in which no appeal lies, or where ~1 f,
an appeal lies but has not been preferred, and if such s u b cases.
ordinate court appears-

,

(c) to have acted in the exercise of jurisdiction illegally or with claterial irregularity.
the Chief Commissioner may pass such order in the
case as he thinks fir.
188. (1) No officer or servant of Government shall be Protection
&able in any civil or criminal proceeding in respect of any
act done or purporting to be done under this Act or under der this
any rule made thereunder, if the act was done in good faith Act
and in the course of execution of duties or the discharge
of functions, imposed by or under this Act.

s2:-

(2) No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against
the Chief Commissioner for any damage caused or likely to
be caused or any injury suffered or likely to be sufTered by
virtue of any provisions of this A c t or by anything done or
intended to be done in good faith in pursuance of this Act
or any rules made thereunder.

+

lo

tarily or under order of court.
(2) Ald suits for pre-emption pending in respect of any
such property in any Court whether of the first instance or
appeal or revision shall stand dismissed, but award of the
msts incurred in any such suit shall be in the discretion of
the caurt.

(2) The provisions of the General Clauws Act, 1897
1S97' shall mutotis mutondis apply, as far as may be, u, this Aa

in the same manner as they apply to a Central Ad.

124

Rules in
general-

The Delhi U m i Reforms Acl, 1954

' - ( C ? w p t e r VIZ-Miscellaneous)
191. (1) Every power to make 'rules given by this
Act shall be deemed to include the power to provide for-

(a) imposing limits of time within which things
to be done for the purposes of the rules must be done,
any authority therein specified
the procedure to be followed in suits, applid other proceedings under this Act, in cases
no specific provision has been made herein;
C) the duties of any officer or authority having
jdsdiction under this Act, the procedure to be follmed~by such officer and authority;
L(d) the time within which applications and appeals
9 be presented under this Act, in cases for which
'specific provision in that behalf has been made
hereh:
' {e) the fees to be paid in respect of appeals and '
a&lications under this Act, in cases for which no specific provision in that behalf has been made herein;
(0 the application of the provisions of the Indian
Limitation Act, 1908, to applications, appeals and proceedings under this Acr, other than those mentioned
i n Schedule I;
the delegation of powers conferred by this Act
on thi Chief Commissioner or any other authority,
officer or person; and
kh) the transfer d proceedings from one authority
or oflicer to another.

.

(2) All rules made under this Act shall be published in
the Officiil Gazette, and shall, unless some later date is
appointed, come into force on the date of such publication.

'[@)c

rules made under this Act shall be laid for
not less
thirty days before both Hwses of Parliament
as soon as possible after they are made and shall be subject
to such modifications as Parliament may make during the
session in which they are so laid or the session immediately
f ~ll~win~;.]i
Saving.

1 q N o t h i n g contained in this Act shall apply to any
land w '& is evacuee property as defined in the Administratim O$ Evacuee Property Act. 1950, except in the fold 31 of 1950.
lowing cases :

-

i-

(1) Evacuee land held by tenants under lease or
agreement entered into befme the 15th day of August
19471 and

(2) Evacuee's share in lands of
whlch"wou1dvest in the Gacm Sabha.

common utility

*For Delhi Land Reforms Rules 1954, see Notification No. F. 3(16)/54, GA & R, dated
&e 11th November, 195%; Delhi State Gazette, Part V, dated 20-1-1955, p. 27.
%a. by s. 19 of Ctptd Act 4 of 1959.
i

,b
t

T& De&i Land Reform Act, 1954
~

~

U

QL

E

4
m
5 .-5

s

2

',

a

0,

5

&wig
2g2

Y42Q..

m o o

C

,s,
w

0

8~
*=a

0

-,1,8

-

88
<t?;
*g
" U 2
iO
gs
kEI*U
3a
"r'c.s
:&
CJ\o"%
&

a:=

"8

-2 s %
o
- .-5%
0.2
BE .Z

2-'

Q

w
*
?
8.8

ol

4
8$
A h

ea

.$&$

yzt$

--

?

-

---

a

f

126

1

The Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954

-

--

-

1

2

'

<

.

'

3

,

.

..

4'

--

. Application for aurreade~~. - fiOne ..
13 64 .
. Application
for service of notice
D ~ ,
!n respect of abandoned hold- ~ng.
'13A 6SA
. (i) Proceedings
for leasing land
on behalf of Bhumidhar under
,

I
-

12 62

,.

4

#

-

5

-.

None
Do.

DO.

,Do.

(ii) Proceedings for terminatin the
lease under clause (ii) or cfause
(iii) of sub-section (4) or under
sub-sect~on(5).

DO.

Do.

(iii) Proceedings for declaring the
lease to be Bhumidhar and extinguishing the interest of the
original Bhumidharunderclause
(a) of sub-section(6).

DO,

(iv) Proceedings for termination of
lease and for fresh lease of land
under clause (b) of sub-section

DO.

~ahsildar

Do.

Do.

Nil

--

,
-gL

8

.*

%
w
---

'[Rae 1 -25 P]

clause (i) or clause (ii) of subsection (4) or under sub-section
(5).

.

..

7
,

--

:

6

-.

-

Deputy. (=ommlssloner
Do.

Y

.
..

Deputy Corn- Chief Commlssloner
missioner

Do.

Do.

Do.

Do.

Do.

Do.

Do.

Do.

Do.

Do.

Do.

(6).

14 69

.

. From
the date of ertinc- Ra. 1-25 P
tion.

Revenue'
Assistant

Dcpytr
Corn
rnlss~oner

. . (I) Application
for canceltation of Six months . Prom the date of order &. 1-25 p
order of .Gaon Sabha relating
of Goan Sabha.

hpuly

Chief
Commissi-

Application
get land by
lf %on
an Asarni
Sabha fails
to Six months

.

'1

5

"

.

t o admis81on of a person to

-. . ...

---_

'Ins. by S. 26 of Central Aat
- - - - 3A
-" nf 1 Q M
'Subs. by S. 26 of central Act 38 of 1965.
-a

I

Oommissi-

C

hP

4

,

/

/

I

I

C

h)

1

Q)

1

3

2

-

4

sionor fcr such cancel!,ntton,
.-

.

1[77(1)(a)]
read with
Section 69

Suit for ejectment of Asami

'[77(1) (b)l
read wlth
Section 6(a)
(i) & (ii)

Do.

--

.

r

+yw--m..

7

When !he D ~ u t yCommlsstoner first knew
of the irregdlrcrallot,mOQt.

Nil

~3put
commrs-sioner

Do.

1r77
1("11
(;? . (1
\ - ,--,.,

nn.
--.

DO.

Do.

Two year8

I"

From the date of extinc- '[Rs. 1.25 PI
tion of the rights of
Bhumidhar or Asami.

One year

Do.

read
w t h Section 6(b)
-

.

Six manths

l[77 (1) (41
read with
Section 6(a)
(iii).
#

6

8

-.

(it) Proceedings by D:puty Coqrmis-

16

5

None

Chief
~ommisstoner
-

.*. --..->-

with Sec-

'

..
). ..

Revenue
Assistant

Deputy
Commissioner

Prom
the commencement of this Act where
the cause of actton
arose under Section
77(b) before the date
of commencement of
thisAct andinall other
cases from the date on
which the cause of
action arose

Do.

Do.

Do.

None

. . . .

DO.

Do*

Do.

..

DO.

DO.

Do.

Do.

..

Do.

Do.

Do.

From the date of determination of disability.

. -B

".c 4

a-L=-

(4

*hi)77 (1)read(ell

9

- .-

'

c3

e!2

c.
V)

tn

I

I
"

I

' 1 ,

?

The Dethi Land Reforms Act,

a

w~mt.3

.

4 -

-

,

5

7

6

-

declared Three yeara
under Ghapter III .of the
4 c i or by an Asaml falling
under section 6 of the Act
where such unlawful occupant was In possession of
the land before the issue of
the prescribed declaration

( i ) by a Bhurnidhar

.

(ii) by a

Sabha where
the unlawful occupant was
in possession of the land before the constitution of aaon

1[19A 85

20 86

. .

Suit for ejectment of a person refe- Three Years
rred to in the first proviso.

*

occupying land without

-

I

_

Deputy
Commissioner.

.

..

*.

.. *

",

Y

Do.

From the date of constitution of Gaon Panchayat under section
151.

Do.

%

..

Do.

P

2

Do.

Do.

. From
the date of pass- .'[As in the
ing of the Delhi Land Court fee

Do'

Do.

. 'From
the dateofacquirinp Bhumidharirights.

DO.

Do,

Do.

Reforms (Amendment)
Act, 1965.

..

Act, 1870.1
DO.

-

..

Do.

..

Do

provlded for for a suit under seca suit under
tion 84, 85 or -86, M
the case may be.
section 84, 85
or 86. as the
. case may be. ,

-

-

-

L

Y

I

---... - --

-

Si
P

. Proceedings for ejectment of per- Same . as that Same as that provided Nil
sons

r

----

W

a

9

occupation.]

. . Suitto forwhom
ejectment of a Bhurnidhar o n e year
clause (i) of Ssction

'[ZOA 86A

-

. From
the 1st of July following the date of

PO.

Gaon Sa3ha ~n any other
case.

85 applies.

'

1870.

tIon f ~ m
to thetenure
bolder or .the subtenure-holder
concerned.

,

Do.

(iii) by a Bhumidhy, Asami or

. From
the dateofissue of As in the Co- Revenue
the prescr~beddsclaraurt Pee Act, Assistant

8

Y

- .. .----

---.-I.

I
.

*Ins.by S. 26 of Central Act 38 of 1965.

-

T

-

+-

/
/

-- -----..

.,.-..- ., -.., -..
,

--- -----

-.

- ...

-

. Suitlandsforofejectment
of person from Three years . From the date of consti- '[As in the Revenue
Deputy
Chjef chmmlssloner.
public utility.
tution of Gaon Pancha- Court Fee
Assistant Cornmi-

.

'121 87

22 88

ssroner

yat under section 151.1

Act, 1870.1

. . Objection
of an Asami against One year
. From
the dateof fixation
the fixation of rent by Gaon
of rent.

1.25 PI

Do.

Do.

..

. From
the date of varia- As in the
tion.
Court Fees

Do.

Do.

..

Do.

Do.

..

Do.

Do.

..

'

Sabha or land holder.

a

. . Application
against variation of One year
rent.

23 89

Act, 1870.

. . Suitforforarrears
determinationof rent and During the pe- Date of occupation
.
of rent.
riod of occu-

24 90

Do.

pation
or
within three
years
after
the
exnirv
of such period.

I

-

.

r

-.
.

25 93

.

.

26 95

. . Application
for recovery ofarrears .Three years . Three months after the . Do.
of rent and ejectment in default.
date the rent becomes

Suit for commutation of rent

2
2

Do.

Do.

Do.
,

.

Tahsildar

Do.

Do.

Do.

..

,,

g.
C

w

VI

P

due.

I

.

. Suit for recovery of irrigation dues. ,Do.
-28 104 .
. -Declaratory suit . , . . None .
27 102

- - - ..
- ..--."-..
.-"

.--- . .-

--- -

A

From thedateof delivery
of Jamabandi.

'

-. -

-

-

#.

None

-.

'Subs. by S. 20 of Central Act 4 of 1959 for original ently.
"ubs by, s. 26 of Central Act, 38 of 1965.

Do.

. . . . '[Rs. 1-25 PI Revenue
Aqqistant.
-~

- - - . - .*

-----

c

. - ."-

-

&.

.----.-..-.--.

.

,
'

Chief: Cop.
m~ssloner.

--.-...------

F

W
C

I

I

I

1

,

. .
-,.

, Application for v&~iJionaf landrrvrnnr
."."Y"-.

. . . .

C

l.I
n
*A?
" IT*

. .

3 %167

w
. . Application
. by tenure-holder of None . . None . . . . Nil.
hnldina fnr ---------....
- -.-------

.

hv
yews
-, -n E'lurnidhar
-.--.-- -..-. or
- Tnree
--others for reimbursement of
land revenue.

A.\nlicltinn

.'L.,---.-

~lnernnnmrn
+inn nf n PA-nwrntive

fnrmaFarm.

. Prom the date of the ar-

..I

As in the Revenue -d&iputy
Court Fces Assistant
CommfssiAct, 1870.
oner
DO.

DO.

DO.

rears become due.

Deputy.
Chief Com~ o m m l ~ s i -mlssloner.
oner.

..
..
..

Y

a

The Delhi Land Reform Act, 1954
Stay of suits and proceedings

a

Section 20-21
(i) Appointment of Lambardars under sektion 45
of Land Reyenue Act, U.P., 1901, or appointments of
Headman, Zaildar or Inamdars under sectim 28, Punjab Land Revenue Act. 1887.

(ii) Partition or Union of Mohals under Chapter

W,Land Revenue Act, U.P., 1901, or Partition of

Land under Chapter IX, Punjab Land Revenue Act,
1887.

(iii) Suits, applications or prowdings (including
appeals, reference and revisions) relating to or pending
under :&a

Tenancy Act, 1901

Punjab T e ~ n c yAct, 1887

t Section 31. Remedies against Section 60, Irregular Transfer of
illegal sublease.

occupancy rights.

2. Sections 52 and 53, Corn- Sections 13. 20 to 23, Commutamutatlon,
abatement
enhancement of rent.

or

tion, abatement or enhancement of rent.

3. Sections 57 (b), (c) and (d) Sections 39, 40 and 41, Ejectand 58, Ejectments.
mentsexcept againstthose persons who are Asamis of the land referred to
in clause (6) of section 77 of Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954.

4. Section

85, Notice of sur- Settion 36, Notice of surrender
m d e r through Tehsildar.
through Revenue Officer.

5. Section 94, Disputes as to
right to make improvement.

Disputes arising from right to
make
improvements under
sections 61 to 68.

6. Section 96, Right to writtea
leases or counterparts.

7. Section 150, Resumption of
oi assessment of rent
or
revenue on rent-free grants.

8. kction 155, Ejectment when
tent-free grant is resumed.

..

